
                               1 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PM told to prepare for coalition divorce

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Tony Grew

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 605 words


minister. "There is an appetite to push that nuclear button a bit more, but
whether we are with them [the Lib Dems] or they are outside the coalition
doesn't make a lot of difference," he said.

"What I would like us to do is go ahead with our proposals on human rights for
example, and defy the Lib Dems to vote against us."

Graham Brady, chairman of the influential 1922 committee of backbenchers, said
that it would become increasingly difficult for the two parties to set out their
policies without a distancing between them before the election, possibly
involving a formal end to the coalition.

"I have always made the point that if you are going to communicate a political
message to the public and have any realistic hope of getting real traction there
needs to be a consistent sustained message over at least a period of months
before the election," said Brady.

"The alternative to a planned, measured separation would inevitably be a more
fractious relationship of the sort that was evidenced in the last few days with
Vince Cable's comments on immigration."

Cable, the business secretary, likened Cameron's proposals to tighten rules for
EU migrants to Enoch Powell's "rivers of blood" speech and said the prime
minister's rhetoric had made voters "schizophrenic" about the issue.

Liam Fox, the former defence secretary, writing in today's Sunday Times, says
most Tories have "resented" being in the coalition. He acknowledges that many
Tories "want to see the phasing out of the coalition ... but we need a
parliamentary majority to govern and avoid chaos".

He adds, however: "It is vital to make ourselves ideologically more separate. As
the parties contemplate the next election, there is an increased need to
establish distinct identities."

Fox proposes that his party should set out distinctly Tory policies in areas
such as promising an referendum on EU membership, controlling public spending
and focusing on how many and what kind of immigrants are allowed to enter
Britain.

Cheryl Gillan, the former Welsh secretary, said the willingness of Lib Dem
ministers to speak out against their own government's policies meant that "in
many ways the coalition has ended already because cabinet collective
responsibility appears to have broken down a long time ago".

Many senior Tories believe Cameron should force a vote in parliament on
repealing the Human Rights Act and curb EU attempts to force new rights into
British law.

They include Sir Gerald Howarth, the former defence minister, who said: "It is
up to them [the Lib Dems] whether or not there is a formal break-up, we should
start acting as the Conservative party and setting out our agenda and if it
causes them offence, fine, let's have a vote in the House of Commons."

Happy New Year - let's get ready for divorce, page 25 SENIOR Conservatives have
called on David Cameron to "push the nuclear button" against the Liberal
Democrats and pursue an overtly Tory agenda in the run-up to the general
election, even if it sparks the collapse of the coalition.

Former ministers and senior MPs believe the prime minister is running out of
time to convince voters that he has distinct ideas on issues such as immigration
and standing up to the European Union on human rights rather than "pandering to
the Lib Dems". The growing Tory clamour for Cameron to put distance between
himself and Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, before the 2015 election
reflects anger about Lib Dem criticism of Tory policies while Conservative
ministers largely refrain from attacking their coalition partners.

Those who want Cameron to square up to Clegg include Tim Loughton, the former
children's

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

RAYS OF HOPE;
A brighter dawn glimmers on the horizon as clouds of recession finally cleared
in an encouraging 2013. By Gabrielle Monaghan

BYLINE: Gabrielle Monaghan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1605 words


Tom Cruise loved us and Seamus Heaney left us in 2013 It was the year Ireland
basked in a long hot summer and said goodbye to a troika that first came to town
on a freezing day in November 2010.

Thanks to the hottest July on record, last summer was the warmest since 2006,
when we were gripped by what the taoiseach Enda Kenny described as a "mad
borrowing" frenzy. Ireland's sunny disposition extended to making the Gathering
a success. Despite Gabriel Byrne's criticism of the year-long event as a "scam"
aimed at shaking down Irish Americans "for a few quid", communities organised
enough homecomings and reunions to help boost overseas visitors to Ireland by
7%. Michael Ring, a junior minister, even thanked Byrne for giving Ireland "the
kind of publicity we couldn't pay for". It didn't hurt that actor Tom Cruise
dropped by and was presented with a certificate of Irishness.

The summer's feel-good factor spilled into the hurling season, when Dublin
claimed their first Leinster title since 1961, and Limerick their first Munster
crown since 1996. Clare beat Cork in a replayed final that featured eight goals,
becoming All-Ireland hurling champions for the first time since 1997. Three of
Clare's five goals came from 19-year-old Shane O'Donnell in the first 20 minutes
of the match. The display was praised by Roy Keane, who was named the Republic
of Ireland's assistant manager under Martin O'Neill in November. Even Dublin's
victory over Kerry in the All-Ireland football semi-final, in what was hailed
one of the greatest games in the history of the code, was somewhat overshadowed.

Ryanair may not have relished the soaring summer temperatures, which prompted
more northern Europeans to holiday at home, leading the airline to issue a
profit warning. All to the good, perhaps, as chief executive Michael O'Leary
then promised to soften the airline's image to reveal a "cuddly" Ryanair. This
involved O'Leary joking with the public on Twitter, allocating seats to
passengers and simplifying its website. sengers There were heated debates for a
quite different reason in July when Tom Barry, a Fine Gael TD for Cork East,
pulled another Fine Gael deputy, Aine Collins, onto his lap in the Dail chamber.
Lapgate, as the incident was dubbed, happened during an allnight Dail session on
the night Protection of Life during Pregnancy bill. When legis-legislators
finally signed the bill latorsinto law, it became the first parliament to honour
a 1992 judgment by the Supreme Court, which ruled that a 14-year-old suicidal
rape victim had the right to an abortion because her life was at risk. Lucinda
Creighton, a Fine Gael junior minister, voted against the bill, automatically
casting herself out of a party she joined as an 18-year-old. She and other TDs
who lost the parliamentary party whip as a result of their opposition to the
legislation created a grouping styling itself the Reform Alliance, which they
insisted was not a party.

AT ITS beginning, not many would have predicted the year would be auspicious. It
began with Ireland being pitchforked into the international limelight when it
was revealed beefburgers supplied to supermarkets contained traces of equine
DNA, with one product containing 29% horse. Just as the Shergar jokes were
abating, Kenny stumbled in early February by failing to say sorry to women held
in the Magdalene laundries on the day that a damning 1,000-plus page report
detailed how the state had colluded in sending them there. Two weeks later, the
taoiseach made amends when he issued a fulsome apology in the Dail.

By then, Kenny's government was winning kudos for bringing Ireland to an
economic turning point. IBRC, the former Anglo Irish Bank, was liquidated on a
February night to enable the state to secure a deal on crippling bank debt,
saving the country at least (EURO)1bn in 2013 and (EURO)20bn over the following
decade. It meant Ireland could tear up the promissory notes owed to Anglo's
bondholders that were, in the taoiseach's words, "a millstone around the neck of
the Irish taxpayer", pushing back debt payments until at least 2043.

The satisfaction was short-lived. By the summer, recorded phone conversations
leaked to Independent News & Media revealed a blithe and disrespectful attitude
by Anglo executives towards being bailed out, and suggestions the bank knew it
was in trouble before the government issued a blanket guarantee in September
2008. Most damaging of all, David Drumm, then Anglo's chief executive, was heard
laughing as John Bowe, its then head of capital markets, sang Deutschland,
Deutschland uber alles down the phone. German chancellor Angela Merkel was not
amused. The Anglo tapes also featured a claim by Bowe that, when authorities
asked how much would be needed to rescue the bank that nearly bankrupted
Ireland, he picked a figure of (EURO)7bn "out of my arse".

The taoiseach's authority suffered a setback in October, when his proposal to
abolish the Seanad was narrowly rejected in a referendum. Seemingly undaunted,
he announced in November that he would campaign in favour of a same-sex marriage
referendum in 2015. In April, the constitutional convention had voted in favour
of recommending that the government change the constitution to allow equal
access to civil marriage for gay couples. The government also accepted the
convention's recommendation to prioritise legal changes that would recognise and
support families with gay and lesbian parents. This could be a bigger bone of
contention in the run-up to the 2015 vote, with reservations being held by more
conservative members of the government and electorate about the adoption of
children by same-sex couples.

Two weeks ago the interview-shy taoiseach gave a televised address to the nation
to thank the people for their "sacrifices" and declare Ireland had officially
exited its IMF-EU rescue programme. This milestone, Kenny said, sent out "a
powerful signal internationally that Ireland is fighting back, that the spirit
of our people is as strong as ever". He then promised, some thought
optimistically, to replace by 2020 the 330,000 jobs lost during the recession.

Ireland's reputation as the poster boy for austerity policies seemed to have
been enhanced by the bailout exit, accomplished without a precautionary line of
credit. At year's end unemployment was at its lowest since 2009, the economy
grew 1.5% in the third quarter and house prices started to pick up. As the
finance minister Michael Noonan was keen to point out, there is "still a tough
road ahead" and "we can't go mad again". The troika has left behind a country
still heavily in debt, and many of the households suffering years of austerity
budgets saw few reasons for self-congratulation given the emigration, spending
cuts, tax rises, slashed wages and distressed mortgages of the past five years.
It was no surprise that Google's top 10 most searched-for terms in 2013 included
"property tax". Water charges, as well as further cuts to the health service,
loom next year.

The bailout exit, coupled with the Economic and Social Research Institute's most
upbeat assessment on the economy since the downturn began, may bode well for the
government parties at the local and ¦ European elections next year. But one of
the few electoral contests of 2013 proved humiliating for the Labour party,
whose candidate Eoin Holmes polled 4.6% and finished in fifth place in the Meath
East by-election, behind a group styling itself Direct Democracy.

When not gripped by real-life drama, most Irish people were spending their
Sunday nights watching depictions of the criminal underworld on the popular RTE
drama series Love/Hate. This year the portrayal of a cat being gunned to death
caused a bigger furore than for any other criminal activity, although the
closing scene proved almost as controversial.

Ireland lost some of its true leading lights in 2013. We bade farewell to Marie
Fleming, the multiple sclerosis sufferer and campaigner who, according to her
partner Tom Curran, died "in peace" earlier this month. Unable to physically
take her own life, as was her expressed wish, Fleming had fought a lengthy court
battle to allow Curran to assist her without fear of prosecution.

When the High Court ruled against her effort, she appealed to the Supreme Court,
but last April it upheld the original finding against her application.

We also said goodbye to Fr Alec Reid, a Redemptorist who played an important
role during the peace process as a secret go-between in negotiations between the
IRA and the British and Irish governments, and to Donal Walsh, a 16-year-old
anti-suicide campaigner from Co Kerry who died last May. Even as Walsh's life
was being eroded by cancer, he spent his final months urging young people to
seek help if they were considering suicide. In a documentary on his legacy, due
to be shown on Wednesday, Terence Casey, the south Kerry coroner, said Walsh's
message had resonated so strongly in the area that there had been no suicides
for six months.

Character actor Milo O'Shea died in April at the age of 86 and earlier this
month Peter O'Toole, star of Lawrence of Arabia, passed away. Nobel laureate
Seamus Heaney, described by Robert Lowell as "the most important Irish poet
since Yeats", died in August aged 74. Fellow poet Michael Longley said he felt
like he had "lost a brother".

During a speech at the National Museum five months before his death, Heaney
said: "We are not simply a credit rating or an economy but a history and a
culture, a human population rather than a statistical phenomenon." A useful
motto as we enter 2014 and strive to put the dark clouds even further behind us.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tom Cruise loved us and Seamus Heaney left us in 2013
From top right, gay marriage; summer sun; Clare win hurling final; Martin
O'Neill and Roy Keane; Howlin and Noonan wave goodbye to bailout; fun at the
Gathering

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Happy new year - let's get ready for divorce;
The coalition scored many successes, but Tories need to show what they can do on
their own, says Liam Fox

BYLINE: Liam Fox

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 916 words


The coalition was only ever a marriage of convenience. Three years into it, the
respective partners are doing it only for the kids, preparing for an inevitable
divorce. The only question is whether it will be of the rarer, amicable sort, or
the more common, acrimonious variety.

Most Conservatives have resented sharing power. The regular complaint from party
activists is that "this is not a proper Conservative government", which receives
the inevitable response that this is not a Conservative government, but a
coalition one. There is a price for not winning, and this is it. Much of the
resentment comes from the hyped-up expectations during the dire, dying Blair
years and the catastrophe that was Gordon Brown's administration. Yet a hung
parliament was always a likely outcome of the 2010 election. As William Hague
frequently pointed out to me and other shadow cabinet members, the rigged
electoral system, and the sheer mountain of seats needed to give an outright
victory, made it arithmetically unlikely.

Few Conservatives wanted a coalition with the Lib Dems, and most have not
particularly enjoyed the experience. It is, however, worth taking an objective
view of the coalition's achievements. Its very formation gave reassurance to the
markets that there would be a period of political stability, especially economic
stability. David Cameron knew that the risks of going alone were high.

The Lib Dems have also helped push through fundamental welfare reform under Iain
Duncan Smith, which would have been politically difficult with even a moderately
large Conservative majority. The welfare cap and the introduction of universal
benefit are radical reforms that both parties can be proud of. Similarly, the
path to deficit reduction under George Osborne may have been slower than many
Conservatives, including me, would have liked to see if there had been a Tory
majority. However, going half-speed in the right economic direction is
infinitely preferable to going full speed ahead in the wrong direction under
Labour. The coalition's greatest achievement may be a negative one - that it
saved Britain from another disastrous socialist-style spending spree.

Many Conservatives want to see the phasing-out of the coalition next year but we
need a parliamentary majority to govern and avoid chaos. However, it is vital to
make ourselves ideologically more separate. As the parties contemplate the next
election, there is an increased need to establish distinct identities across a
wide range of policy areas. Starting in this crucial coming year, the
Conservative party has to develop a clear view of life after divorce, offering
the benefits to voters that a majority Conservative government in 2015 would
bring.

There are three areas of difference that are electorally important and
distinguish the two parties.

On economic policy there is a strong need to go further in controlling public
spending. In 2014 debt interest will outstrip the education budget, becoming the
third-biggest call on the Treasury after social security and health. With the
country having to cough up £55bn in debt interest and taxpayers paying more than
£1,500 each for this, there is an urgent need for tighter housekeeping, which
Conservatives should champion.

By the time of the 2015 election nearly half Britain's national debt will have
been run up under the current government - even with the deficit reduction -
because of the economic catastrophe inherited from Labour. The plans by the
Labour party, bizarrely, to borrow and spend even more look increasingly
irresponsible, while the Liberal Democrats have little appetite for further
cuts. Only the Conservatives can promise to save future generations from a
horrific debt burden by learning to live within our means.

On immigration, it is becoming ever clearer that the coalition parties face in
different directions. Not only do we need to control the number of immigrants
entering the country (since this places huge pressure on housing, school places
and the health service), but we will increasingly have to focus on exactly who
is entering the country. There is a huge difference between those who enter with
the skills and energy to create wealth and those who come because they have
family here or because of the lure of the welfare state. Within a sensible
constraint on numbers, we need an open-and-shut policy - more open to those who
can contribute to the economy and more shut to those who cannot.

Closely allied with the issue of immigration is the issue of Europe. Even for
those without strong political views on the matter, it has clearly become an
argument between those who are willing to trust the British people to decide and
those who are not. It is clear that the Lib Dems cannot contemplate a referendum
that might ever result in a vote to leave the EU. Those who want to see a
referendum held can achieve this only by the election of a Conservative
government. A vote for any other party will see that choice denied.

There are those who want to end the coalition early with a big bang, those who
want to see it gradually fade away and those who want to keep it intact until
polling day. How the divorce between the coalition partners is handled will be
watched closely by voters and party activists to ensure that the interests of
the country, and the genuinely different political traditions that are so
valued, do not play second fiddle to the interests of politicians themselves.

Liam Fox is the Conservative MP for North Somerset

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 22, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

WHERE'S THE OLD SHATTER NOW THAT WE NEED HIM?;
ESTABLISHED 1822

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 456 words


Alan Shatter's ministerial colleagues tend to talk about him with grudging
admiration. The justice minister is renowned at cabinet for his work ethic - he
is known to be at his desk at the crack of dawn - and for the uncompromising
manner in which he approaches his portfolio.

From his first month in office, the Dublin South TD set the tone of his
ministry, ending the provision of garda drivers for cabinet ministers, former
presidents and taoisigh. A few months later he caused astonishment in the legal
profession when he requested that Justice Peter Smithwick hurry up and finish
his inquiry into possible garda collusion in the IRA murder of two RUC officers
in 1989. The Smithwick tribunal had been running since 2006 at a cost of
(EURO)8m, Shatter noted. He followed that by championing a referendum to cut
judges' pay, no doubt deepening his unpopularity in the Four Courts. This year,
Shatter has faced down political pressure from colleagues to row back on a
decision to close 95 rural garda stations. He delivered a potentially vital
solution for distressed mortgage holders in the Personal Insolvency Bill. Yet
when it comes to the Legal Services Regulation Bill - arguably the most radical
legislation - Shatter's famed reforming zeal appears to have deserted him.

After the bill was approved by cabinet in October 2011, the justice minister
promised it would "bring the legal profession out of the 19th century and into
the 21st century". Under the original proposals, solicitors and barristers were
to be stripped of their right to self-regulate, and the law would allow
multidisciplinary practices in which barristers and solicitors come together to
provide legal services, reducing the cost for the public.

After moving quickly through second stage, the bill has languished at committee
stage for nearly a year, despite a requirement that it be enacted as part of the
agreement with the bailout troika. Indeed, this failure was noted by the
International Monetary Fund and European Commission before the bailout exit.

In the intervening time, key elements of the bill have been watered down. This
month it emerged Shatter had agreed to allow the Law Society to continue to
regulate solicitors' accounts and investigate possible frauds. At last week's
cabinet meeting, Eamon Gilmore, the tanaiste, refused to agree to an amendment
to allow the creation of one-stop shops comprising barristers and solicitors.

The cabinet is due to return to the issue after Christmas. If Shatter folds to
Labour's demands, the Legal Services Regulation Bill will have lost two of its
most radical and important elements. So let us hope the justice minister
rediscovers his tenacity and stubbornness in the inter-party negotiations that
lie ahead.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 22, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Clegg blocks more curbs on migrants;
Deputy PM takes on Tories ; Immigration 'hysteria'

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; David Leppard

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1069 words


NICK CLEGG has issued a stark warning that he will not tolerate any further
curbs on immigration from within the EU while he is in office.

The deputy prime minister and Liberal Democrat leader insists that proposed
restrictions on benefits for migrants are enough to protect Britain from an
influx from eastern Europe. He has signalled that there will be no further
negotiations on the issue with Conservative colleagues before 2015.

Writing in The Sunday Times today, he says: "This is where we draw the line."

Clegg's intervention comes two days after David Cameron told Brussels that
Britain will veto any further expansion of the EU unless far tighter controls
are placed on the "vast migrations" of workers.

In a significant escalation of the bitter political debate over freedom of
movement, the prime minister said the European Union's founding fathers never
envisaged that the accession of new countries would prompt "mass population
movements across Europe".

Any changes, however, will be too late to stop Bulgarians and Romanians coming
to Britain from next month. Rebel backbenchers are refusing to back down in
their demands that restrictions be extended for another five years, with 70 now
backing a Commons amendment supporting the measure, even if it flouts European
law. In his article, Clegg paints an apocalyptic picture of Britain's future if
the freedom of movement principle is not upheld, suggesting the National Health
Service would "fall over" and the City of London would "grind to a halt".

"Sticking a big no-entry sign on the cliffs of Dover may be politically popular,
but at a huge economic cost," Clegg writes.

"What would happen if tonight every European living in the UK boarded a ship or
plane and went home? Are we really that keen to see the back of German lawyers,
Dutch accountants or Finnish engineers? Do we want the NHS to fall over and the
City of London to grind to a halt?" Describing the battle over freedom of
movement as "the biggest dividing line in politics today", he rejects Tory
suggestions of a cap on migrants from the EU, labelling it "arbitrary",
"pointless" and "distracting".

He adds: "Britain would be one step closer to the exit, even though walking away
from Europe would cripple the economic recovery that's been so hard won."

The coalition has agreed various curbs on access to social housing and benefits
for new arrivals from Bulgaria and Romania next year. The measures are being
rushed through parliament and are designed to ensure that new migrants cannot
claim certain benefits until they have been in the UK for at least three months.
Rough sleepers who are sent home will not be able to return for a year.

Clegg describes the reforms as "sensible and reasonable" and says they will
"help preserve the UK's open and welcoming nature".

Tory right-wingers are angry that the restrictions are not more sweeping and
that the measures are being implemented at the 11th hour. At least one senior
cabinet minister has been urging the prime minister to act on Bulgaria and
Romania since the summer, becoming increasingly exasperated by Cameron's failure
to "wake up" to the problem.

Two separate groups of Conservative MPs - one led by the former cabinet minister
John Redwood - also approached Cameron in the autumn to warn him of a growing
rebellion on the back benches. One of those present said the prime minister
"brushed off" their concerns and told them nothing could be changed.

This weekend Rosen Plevneliev, the president of Bulgaria, issued a stark warning
to Cameron that his immigration policy risked "isolating Britain and damaging
Britain's reputation".

In an interview with The Observer newspaper, Plevneliev laid down a challenge to
the prime minister not to pander to nationalists and revealed he had confronted
Cameron over the government's "actions, language and plans" on immigration at a
recent summit in Lithuania.

"Politicians should be ready to say the inconvenient truth and fight for
unpleasant but necessary decisions which, in the short term, will bring our
ratings down but, in the long term, preserve our values and keep the history of
our proud, tolerant nations as they are," he said.

Criticism of Cameron also came from Laszlo Andor, the EU's employment
commissioner, who attacked the prime minister for "echoing" the rhetoric of
Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader. He dismissed as "hysteria" fears of a surge in
migration when restrictions on Bulgarians and Romanians seeking work in Britain
are lifted on January 1. Andor, a Hungarian who studied for a postgraduate
degree at Manchester University, added: "It's very difficult to be partners when
you see that the discourse is driven by gut feelings and a certain
scaremongering."

The commissioner has long had Continued on page 2 ?? WW

? Continued from page 1 poor relations with Iain Duncan Smith, the work and
pensions secretary, and has begun legal action against the residence test of the
work and pensions secretary that new EU migrants must pass to claim benefits.
Andor said Duncan Smith should end his refusal to come to Brussels to meet him
if relations were to be improved.

He attacked Britain's "paradoxical" stance of championing expansion of the EU
and freedom of movement as part of the single market and then opposing migration
from the new member states and called on Britain to welcome Roma migrants from
eastern Europe.

"We need to endeavour at [Roma] integration - integration in their home
countries but also in host countries such as the UK ... They will be able to
travel and there will be more mixing. Should it scare us? We need to [get their]
children into school ... parents into employment and so on," he said.

Andor suggested Britain was guilty of double standards. "The biggest rise of
migration to the UK in the recent period is from Spain and Italy, but there is
no hysteria," he said. "So why are there alarm bells about new arrivals from
Romania and Bulgaria?" ? An attempt by David Cameron to legislate for an in-out
referendum on Britain's EU membership is in danger of collapse due to opposition
from hostile peers, senior Tories fear.

A loose alliance of Europhile Tories and crossbenchers is understood to be
preparing dozens of amendments to the EU referendum bill, which the Commons
passed last month.

It is feared they could cause so many delays that the bill, which promises a
referendum by the end of 2017, has to be abandoned.

? Continued from page 1 [...]

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 22, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Clegg blocks more curbs on migrants;
Deputy PM takes on Tories ; Immigration 'hysteria'

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; David Leppard

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 955 words


NICK CLEGG has issued a stark warning that he will not tolerate any further
curbs on immigration from within the EU while he is in office.

The deputy prime minister and Liberal Democrat leader insists proposed
restrictions on benefits for migrants are enough to protect Britain from an
influx from eastern Europe. He has signalled that there will be no further
negotiations on the issue with Conservative colleagues before 2015.

Writing in The Sunday Times today, he says: "This is where we draw the line."

Clegg's intervention came two days after David Cameron told Brussels that
Britain would veto any further expansion of the EU unless far tighter controls
were placed on the "vast migrations" of workers.

In a significant escalation of the bitter political debate over freedom of
movement, the prime minister said the European Union's founding fathers never
envisaged that the accession of new countries would prompt "mass population
movements across Europe".

Any changes, however, will be too late to stop Bulgarians and Romanians coming
to Britain from next month. Rebel backbenchers are refusing to back down on
their demands that restrictions be extended for another five years, with 70 now
backing a Commons amendment supporting the measure, even if it flouts European
law.

In his article, Clegg paints an apocalyptic picture of Britain's future if the
freedom of movement principle is not upheld, suggesting the NHS would "fall
over" and the City of London would "grind to a halt".

"Sticking a big no-entry sign on the cliffs of Dover may be politically popular,
but at a huge economic cost," Clegg writes. "What would happen if tonight every
European living in the UK boarded a ship or plane and went home? Are we really
that keen to see the back of German lawyers, Dutch accountants or Finnish
engineers? Do we want the NHS to fall over and the City of London to grind to a
halt?" Describing the battle over freedom of movement as "the biggest dividing
line in politics today", he rejects Tory suggestions of a cap on migrants from
the EU, labelling it "arbitrary", "pointless" and "distracting". He adds:
"Britain would be one step closer to the exit, even though walking away from
Europe would cripple the economic recovery that's been so hard won."

The coalition has agreed curbs on access to social housing and benefits for new
arrivals from Bulgaria and Romania next year. The measures are being rushed
through parliament and are designed to ensure new migrants cannot claim certain
benefits until they have been in the UK for at least three months. Rough
sleepers sent home will not be able to return for a year.

Clegg describes the reforms as "sensible and reasonable" and says they will
"help preserve the UK's open and welcoming nature".

Tory right-wingers are angry that the restrictions are not more sweeping and
that the measures are being implemented at the 11th hour. At least one senior
cabinet minister has been urging the prime minister to act on Bulgaria and
Romania since the summer, becoming increasingly exasperated by Cameron's failure
to Continued on page 2 ? ? WW

? Continued from page 1 "wake up" to the problem. Two separate groups of
Conservative MPs - one led by the former cabinet minister John Redwood -
approached Cameron in the autumn to warn him of a growing rebellion on the back
benches. One of those present said the prime minister "brushed off" their
concerns and told them nothing could be changed.

This weekend Rosen Plevneliev, the president of Bulgaria, warned Cameron that
his immigration policy risked "isolating Britain and damaging Britain's
reputation".

In an interview with The Observer, Plevneliev challenged the prime minister not
to pander to nationalists and revealed he had confronted him over the
government's "actions, language and plans" on immigration at a recent summit in
Lithuania.

"Politicians should be ready to say the inconvenient truth and fight for
unpleasant but necessary decisions which, in the short term, will bring our
ratings down but, in the long term, preserve our values and keep the history of
our proud, tolerant nations as they are," he said.

Criticism of Cameron also came from Laszlo Andor, the EU's employment
commissioner, who attacked the prime minister for "echoing" the rhetoric of
Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader. He dismissed as "hysteria" fears of a surge in
migration when restrictions on Bulgarians and Romanians seeking work in Britain
are lifted on January 1. Andor, a Hungarian who studied for a postgraduate
degree at Manchester University, added: "It's very difficult to be partners when
you see that the discourse is driven by gut feelings and a certain
scaremongering."

The commissioner has begun legal action against Britain's new residence test
that new EU migrants must pass to claim benefits. He attacked Britain's
"paradoxical" stance of championing expansion of the EU and freedom of movement
as part of the single market and also opposing migration from the new member
states.

Andor suggested Britain was guilty of double standards. "The biggest rise of
migration to the UK in the recent period is from Spain and Italy, but there is
no hysteria," he said. "So why are there alarm bells about new arrivals from
Romania and Bulgaria?" ? An attempt by David Cameron to legislate for an in-out
referendum on Britain's EU membership is in danger of collapse due to opposition
from hostile peers, senior Tories fear.

A loose alliance of Europhile Tories and crossbenchers is understood to be
preparing dozens of amendments to the EU referendum bill, which the Commons
passed last month.

It is feared they could cause so many delays that the bill, which promises a
referendum by the end of 2017, has to be abandoned.

? Continued from page 1 [...]

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Free movement in the EU need not choke us;
With three simple measures Britain can keep migration within bounds, writes
David Goodhart

BYLINE: David Goodhart

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 902 words


If there were a referendum tomorrow, I would certainly vote for Britain to
remain a member of the European Union. Geopolitically and economically, the EU
has been, and often continues to be, a huge force for good in the world, despite
the annoying sovereignty-squashing rules it sometimes requires.

But, as is now widely recognised, the hubris of "ever-closer union" has led to
the mess of an overextended euro and is now bringing the EU into further
disrepute through dogmatic application of the idea of freedom of movement across
national borders.

Britain has the opportunity to lead an EU-wide movement to bring freedom of
movement back into line with what most EU citizens would regard as fair,
especially in job markets and welfare entitlement, and thus remove an
unnecessary source of hostility to the organisation. The EU is a club of
democracies; its rules should be subject to review in the light of experience.
Britain has now had almost 10 years' experience of freedom of movement with the
poorer former communist countries that entered the EU in 2004, and it is not the
same kind of movement as when the principle was enshrined in the Treaty of Rome
in 1957.

Many EU citizens, including many British citizens, value the right to be more
than just a visitor in another EU country - to be able to study, work, live and
retire there - even if relatively few (currently about 3%) have taken advantage
of it. But the idea of non-discrimination between national citizens of the EU -
the principle that underpins freedom of movement - has become too
indiscriminate. EU law and the decisions of the European Court of Justice have
gradually dissolved almost all special rights, rules and privileges for national
citizens.

This did not matter when the scale of movement was tiny.

But when Britain opened its labour market to the former communist states in
2004, about 1.5m people came over a five-year period. It was the biggest
movement of people in peacetime European history, driven by the fact that income
per head in the sending countries was about one quarter that of the richer EU
states. And they came with more or less the same rights as British citizens.

Abolishing freedom of movement is neither possible nor desirable. And there are
advantages: the development of EU labour markets in certain specialist
professional areas (university lecturers, for example); the ability of countries
going through a rough patch to export some of their unemployment.

But it must be possible to introduce qualifications and exemptions to make it
work better: a system designed for the movement of a few professionals between
similarly rich countries has now become a kind of intra-EU "guest worker"
system. And the idea that freedom of movement is "non-negotiable" is a nonsense:
it has been repeatedly negotiated since 1957; until about 25 years ago, for
example, you had to have a job offer before arriving to work in another EU
state.

Britain has been especially affected by the new mobility, partly because it
opened its doors early in 2004, but also because it has an open labour market
and society. As a result we have a big human trade deficit with the rest of the
EU: there are about 2.7m EU citizens living and working in the UK and 1.4m Brits
doing the same in the rest of the EU.

The post-2004 experience has not been all bad. Many hard-working east Europeans
have made a contribution, and they often do jobs that are complementary to
existing citizens. But as with immigration in general, the economic benefits are
concentrated among the better-off, while the downward pressure on wages - 20% of
those in low-skilled jobs are born abroad - and the competition for public
services affects poorer national citizens. In some parts of the country it has
just been too many people, too quickly, making Britain feel too much like a
transit camp.

To successfully adapt the rules on freedom of movement, the government must now
build coalitions with countries such as Germany, Holland and Sweden, and try to
change the rules with directives that require just majority support (rather than
treaty change, which requires unanimous support).

The main areas for reform are these. First, own-citizen preference in
labour-market support measures. The Labour party, for example, plans to offer a
job to everyone under 25: this should be available to UK citizens only.

Second, EU citizens should continue to get instant access to public services,
but should wait two years for most welfare benefits and five years for social
housing. EU nationals do not draw heavily on the welfare system, so longer
qualification periods will not affect them heavily, but they are symbolically
important for many existing citizens.

Third, it should be possible to introduce emergency controls, like the Swiss
"safeguard clause", when there are sudden surges as in 2005 to 2008 in the UK or
possibly in the future arising from the euro crisis. One idea being mooted by
the government is an annual net immigration threshold of 75,000 from other EU
countries, which when breached would not stop all movement but would allow
governments to introduce special measures. These might include allowing people
to take jobs only from a shortage occupation list.

Such reforms would allow the EU to continue benefiting from free movement, but
would also respect the continuing attachment to the idea of "fellow citizen
favouritism".

David Goodhart is director of Demos

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Ireland can't look on the bright side just yet

BYLINE: MATT COOPER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1096 words


As the troika relinquishes control over our economy and taoiseach Enda Kenny
prepares to go on television tonight to announce the restoration of our economic
sovereignty, a scene from Monty Python's Life of Brian comes to mind. It's the
one in which the People's Front of Judea hold a meeting to deplore what horrors
are being visited upon them by their Roman conquerors. Asked the question as to
"what have the Romans ever given us in return?", we hear the comic recitation of
a list including aqueducts, sanitation, roads, irrigation, medicine, education,
wine and public order. And peace.

The International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Union and European Central
Bank (ECB) didn't bring peace to this island, but they may have helped to
maintain it. Austerity was bad enough but anarchy might have been on the cards
had the troika not stepped in to provide loans to the Irish government to meet
its bills.

Imagine what would have happened had we spurned the rescue package. First, the
country would have been declared bust - officially. The subsequent steps that
would have been required to save the country would have made the past five years
look like a tea party in comparison.

Taxes would have soared to unsustainable levels. State-supplied services would
have been cut to the bone. Unemployment would have been far worse, while
emigration would probably have doubled. A number of multinationals would have
abandoned the country and new investors would have closed the door to the IDA.

The surrender by Brian Cowen's administration to the demands of the troika was
shameful but the real crime committed by that government, and its predecessor,
was to create the circumstances that led to our downfall.

The Irish people reacted stoically to their fate. There was plenty of resentment
at the demands made by our new bosses, but there was also a sizeable cohort who
were relieved that somebody was prepared to help us out. So shouldn't we be
waving off the troika with our best wishes and thanks? It's not that simple. The
help we were offered came with a hefty price tag. Much of what it prescribed was
both damaging and morally wrong because it was working to a bigger agenda,
acting in the interests of continental Europe. For example, it insisted on the
repayment by the Irish state of all the money owed to the bondholders of once
privately owned banks, a debt that should never have been placed at the door of
Irish citizens. It was a deeply immoral act and a selfish one too, designed to
corral the potential contagion of a collapsed euro in an offshore isolation
unit.

To exacerbate matters, it did not even compensate us with what would have been a
refund of the (EURO)64bn this country's citizens were forced to "invest" in
saving the banks. Sops such as tearing up the promissory notes do not go far
enough. We may have "taken one for the team", as finance minister Michael Noonan
has noted memorably, but where's the return? Despite Kenny's valedictory speech,
Ireland will remain on the radar of two of the three agencies that made up the
troika. The IMF turned out to be the good cop, acknowledging the obstacles
placed in our way, but it proved incapable of persuading the ECB and European
Commission to relieve our burden. And it is those two bodies who will continue
to have a watching brief on Ireland's progress (there is a small matter of
(EURO)22bn they expect to be repaid), but at least they will not have the same
influence over policy decisions as over the past three years.

Not everybody is unhappy with this oversight. Indeed, there are many who would
welcome greater "interference" from Europe if it meant there would be no return
to the days of politicians playing fast and loose with the nation's finances.
The government is anxious to play down that possibility. Noonan has emphasised
that he wants to maintain a relatively hard line, seeking to run a budget
surplus. In Noonan-speak, that excludes the cost of borrowing to pay the
interest on our debts.

In any event, private-sector lenders will demand strict budgetary control. Lest
anyone forget, we have actually signed up to good budget behaviour as part of
the EU rules on budget deficits. People seem to forget we put that law into
place following a referendum, earning another pat on the head from the Angela
Merkels of this world for our compliance.

With a budget deficit of 124% there will be no end to austerity. We will be
paying back the troika for a generation to come, while borrowing money elsewhere
for our day-to-day spending. The markets will be our new masters, so we will pay
more taxes and cut more services to repay these new loans from faceless
investors.

All this is known to our elected leaders, yet they might not be able to resist
the temptation of playing politics and flexing their muscles in order to
demonstrate that they have not been completely castrated. The (EURO)600m they
will raise from the sale of Bord Gais Energy will present one such opportunity.
But would you really trust the government to spend those proceeds on the
promised "job creation"? Noonan knows how to impress foreign audiences but
remains, at heart, a populist. That's why he floated the notion of tax cuts last
week. His decision not to take a line of credit as post-bailout insurance was
also political. It is an astonishing risk to take, given the uncertainties, but
a credit line would have prevented the government from making the claim that we
were once more masters of our own destiny. There may be some political benefit
to the government in exiting the bailout but that could wear out pretty soon.
The state-owned banks remain in crisis, seemingly incapable of dealing with
legacy-debt issues and fearful when it comes to issuing new loans. We continue
to labour under an intolerable debt burden. Government's emphasis is on the
exchequer finances but many corporate balance sheets are similarly stretched, as
are many personal borrowers.

Kenny's last television address to the nation was a wooden washout. He needs to
do better tonight. The triumphalism must be kept in check as there are more
tough days ahead. But expect to hear plenty about Ireland being open for
business again and that we are "the best country in the world in which to do
business".

Optimism is good but needs to be grounded in reality. Kenny is not the Messiah
but, to misquote Life of Brian, he is not necessarily "a very naughty boy"
either. We all hope the future is going to be bright but you don't have to be a
doom-monger to worry about the possibilities of it all going wrong.

matt.cooper@sunday-times.ie

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A pull on the drawbridge gets us a better EU;
Britain need not shut out Europe, just distance it a little. Andrea Leadsom and
Dominic Raab offer their blueprint

BYLINE: Andrea Leadsom; Dominic Raab

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 919 words


From shrill fears of a deluge of Romanian benefit tourists to the
attorney-general's stern admonition of Brussels for regulating olive oil jugs,
criticism of the European UInion is coming thick and fast. But when the carping
dies down, what positive relationship do Britons want? The successful passage
through the House of Commons of the EU referendum bill will make it more likely
that the British will get their first say on UK membership in more than 50
years. Back then the Tory lord chancellor, Viscount Dilhorne, predicted the vast
majority of us would "never directly feel the impact of [EU law] at all". Nobody
says that now.

The EU touches almost every aspect of life. Its red tape chokes small
businesses. The working time directive costs the UK economy an estimated £3.6bn
a year and undermines NHS training, creating a shortage of junior doctors.
Families are struggling to make ends meet, yet EU agricultural protectionism
inflates the average household food bill by about £400 each year.

Beyond economic costs, the barrage of European arrest warrants fired at the UK
has led to miscarriages of justice involving Britons, such as the north London
student Andrew Symeou. He was accused by Greek police of killing a man in a
nightclub, despite witness accounts that he wasn't there. After a two-year
ordeal the prosecution collapsed. Cases such as this weaken the fundamental
British principle of "innocent until proven guilty". Add to that the creeping
tentacles of the European Commission and the European Court of Justice over UK
policing and criminal justice - and the yawning democratic deficit is getting
bigger, not smaller.

Of course the EU brings great benefits too. Millions of jobs rely on UK access
to the single market - which is frequently cited by foreign businesses as a key
reason for locating here.

And the EU remains our biggest trading partner, attracting 46% of UK exports.
Yet even that importance is diminishing as British exporters take advantage of
growth opportunities from Latin America to Asia. Take cars. In the past 10 years
British exports to the EU have risen by about a third, but trebled to the rest
of the world - led by innovative firms such as Jaguar Land Rover. Nor is
Britain's trade with the EU reciprocal. Last year we had a trade deficit of
£41bn with the Continent - but a surplus of £5bn with everyone else.

So the picture is mixed. Today, on balance, we believe the scales are tipped
against continued membership. However, with the prospect of a referendum
focusing minds we have an opportunity to negotiate the changes needed to secure
Britain's long-term membership. The coalition is blocked by the Liberal
Democrats from pursuing that change, so the Fresh Start Project of more than 100
Conservative MPs has drawn up a "mandate for reform", focused on three key
areas. First, the EU must sharpen its competitive cutting edge to thrive in the
"global race". That means wresting back national control over employment and
social policy, stronger safeguards for the single market, greater efforts to
liberalise trade in services and freedom to negotiate national free trade deals
where "special interests" block European-wide agreement.

Second, there needs to be far greater flexibility - rather than a
one-size-fits-all approach. For example, given our unique tradition of liberty
and the common law justice system, we want Britain to retain full control of
crime and policing policy and to secure our opt-out from the EU charter of
fundamental rights (which looks fragile at best). Crucially, member states
should take back the power to qualify rights of free movement, to end benefits
tourism and enable the deportation of serious criminals. We also need greater
national flexibility in energy policy, agriculture and fisheries.

Third, democratic accountability must be strengthened. In particular we want a
"red card" system that allows national parliaments to veto bad EU laws, existing
or future, and the extension of the double-majority lock - so that both those in
the euro and those outside have to vote in favour - to stop the eurozone
trumping the interests of the wider EU.

Far from the outdated caricature of Little Englanders pulling up the drawbridge,
this is a positive vision of how the EU can turn from an increasingly insular
bureaucracy to a more competitive global player. We would rather the EU reformed
as a whole and we know from our soundings that the Germans, Dutch and others are
sympathetic. The status quo is not an option because the eurozone is drawing
closer together and the wider EU faces a crisis of competitiveness. But if these
changes can't be agreed by all 28 members, we would settle for national
flexibility in place of the current straitjacket rules.

The Fresh Start Project is not setting red lines for renegotiation. Any deal
will be judged as a package by the British voters in a referendum. But people
reasonably ask what renegotiation would look like. This is a principled and
practical set of reforms capable of commanding widespread popular support. We
can't just watch idly as the EU continues to sink under the weight of its own
bureaucracy. We are proposing a deliverable plan for reform. The prize is a more
competitive, flexible and democratic EU. But if negotiations fail to produce
more than mere crumbs, the EU will only increase the risk that the British
people will vote to leave.

Andrea Leadsom MP is co-founder of the Fresh Start Project; Dominic Raab MP is
the project's justice and home affairs specialist

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Guilty of being in the wrong court;
BUSINESS LETTERS

SECTION: BUSINESS;LETTERS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 57 words


IT WAS Robert Steel who was confused when he wrote in this column last week that
the European Court of Justice has nothing to do with the European Union ("One
referendum is not enough").

The European Court of Justice is very much part of the European Union. It is the
European Court of Human Rights that is not.

Michael Stannard Verbier, Switzerland

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 1, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

One referendum is not enough ...;
BUSINESS LETTERS

SECTION: BUSINESS;LETTERS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 88 words


LAST WEEK'S letter from Norman Porter on the EU referendum debate highlights a
problem. He says the voters must take into account our relationship with the
European Court of Justice.

The European Court of Justice has nothing to do with the European Community,
which is what the referendum is all about. Confusing the two is similar to
confusing soccer and rugby.

If Mr Porter wants us to leave the European Court of Justice he should demand a
separate referendum (which could be held on the same day).

Robert Steel Salisbury, Wiltshire

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 24, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

German invasion cuts Britons out of top Brussels jobs

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 809 words


GERMANY is increasing its dominance of jobs in Brussels and now has almost twice
as many officials in the European Commission as Britain, figures obtained by The
Sunday Times reveal.

Germans fill the top echelons of the EU, providing the secretary-general of the
council, the key decisionmaking forum of European leaders; the head of the civil
service of the European parliament; and the leading official of the European
Central Bank.

Another German, Johannes Leitenberger, heads the cabinet of Jose Manuel Barroso,
the Portuguese head of the European Commission. Martin Schultz, a German MEP, is
the choice of Europe's socialist parties to succeed Barroso when his term ends
next year.

In fact, the extent of Berlin's influence extends throughout the institution:
Germans now account for 8.4% of the 24,000 permanent officials of the European
Commission. Britain has just 4.5% - fewer even than Poland, which did not join
the EU until 2004 but now supplies 4.9% of commission staff.

France, which has traditionally exerted disproportionate influence in Brussels,
accounts for slightly more - 9.6% - but does not have as many big hitters as
Germany.

Officials give credit for the Germans' success to chancellor Angela Merkel who,
several years ago, sought the advice of her EU mandarins on how to increase her
country's presence in Brussels.

She came up with a twopronged offensive: parachuting officials into top Brussels
positions, such as her former Europe adviser, Uwe Corsepius, who became head of
the council in 2011, and a campaign to encourage Germans to apply for EU jobs.

In doing so, Merkel used the leverage built up during the euro crisis, when
Germany agreed to guarantee bailouts for ailing countries on the periphery of
the eurozone.

Germany and France insist that, each year, the commission send them a detailed
breakdown of staff to monitor their nationals' progress. Britain does not do so.

The German surge has coincided with a decline in British influence as a
generation of officials who went to Brussels after the UK joined the then Common
Market in 1973 retire and are not replaced.

British EU mandarins, once hailed as the "Rolls-Royces" of European officialdom,
are now, in the words of an insider, becoming extinct.

"We have made a strategic mistake to neglect EU staffing," said a former UK
diplomat who has served in Brussels. "The Germans understand the value of having
people in the institutions."

Britain no longer has a national at the highest level of staff, secretary
general. The last, Martin Westlake, who headed the economic and social affairs
committee, an EU quango, left earlier this year to pursue a literary career.

Six Britons occupy the next most senior levels - director general - but most are
due to retire in the next few years, with nobody to take their place.

Britain's under-representation in the European corridors of power is likely to
get worse, with British graduates either unwilling or unable to pursue a career
in Brussels.

Just 1,066 Britons applied last year to take the concours, an EU entry exam -
and a mere five passed. Yet even this is only enough to get onto the waiting
list: not a single Briton has got a permanent job in the EU since 2010.

By contrast, 2,891 Germans applied, 24 of whom were successful; and 2,866
French, 17 of whom passed.

One of Brussels's few senior Britons, Jonathan Faull, director-general in charge
of the internal market, blames the problem partly on poor language skills. "But
there is also the lack of interest in the EU, the fact that the European project
has become so unpopular in the UK and, finally, the insecurity ahead of a
possible referendum," he said. Young lawyers and economists - the two most
sought-after professions in the eurocracy - tend to prefer careers in the City.

To help address the problem the Foreign Office has restored its European
fast-stream programme, whereby British civil servants spend time working at EU
institutions.

Government officials also organise roadshows targeting top schools and
universities to try to make an EU career more attractive to graduate students.

Next year the Foreign Office will hold an international careers fair in London,
where it will highlight the benefits of an EU career for UK graduates.

Attempts by David Cameron to relax the language rules to make it easier for
monolingual Britons received short shrift from Barroso when he lobbied him on
the issue in 2011.

Barroso, fluent in four languages, reportedly later told his aides: "I have
learnt English for my job, why can't they learn another language?" But perhaps
even more insurmountable than the language barrier, says a former British EU
mandarin, is the problem of the bloc's image in the UK.

"It might be comfortable to have an EU job in Brussels, but it can be distinctly
uncomfortable to say what you do in, say, a Doncaster pub on a Friday evening,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 24, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

German invasion cuts Britons out of top jobs

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 603 words


GERMANY is increasing its dominance of jobs in Brussels and now has almost twice
as many officials in the European Commission as Britain, figures obtained by The
Sunday Times reveal.

Germans fill the top echelons of the EU, providing the secretary-general of the
council, the key decision-making forum of European leaders; the head of the
civil service of the European parliament; and the leading official of the
European Central Bank.

Another German, Johannes Leitenberger, heads the cabinet of Jose Manuel Barroso,
the Portuguese head of the European Commission. Martin Schultz, a German MEP, is
the choice of Europe's socialist parties to succeed Barroso next year.

In fact, the extent of Berlin's influence extends throughout the institution:
Germans account for 8.4% of the 24,000 permanent officials of the European
Commission. Britain has just 4.5% - fewer even than Poland, which did not join
the EU until 2004 but now supplies 4.9% of commission staff.

France, which has traditionally exerted disproportionate influence in Brussels,
accounts for more - 9.6% - but does not have as many big hitters as Germany.

Officials give credit for the Germans' success to chancellor Angela Merkel who,
several years ago, sought advice on how to increase her country's presence in
Brussels. She came up with a two-pronged offensive: parachuting officials into
top Brussels positions, such as her former Europe adviser, Uwe Corsepius, who
became head of the council in 2011, and a campaign to encourage Germans to apply
for EU jobs.

The German surge has coincided with a decline in British influence as a
generation of officials who went to Brussels after the UK joined the then Common
Market in 1973 retire and are not replaced.

British EU mandarins, once hailed as the "Rolls-Royces" of European officialdom,
are now, in the words of an insider, becoming extinct. "We have made a strategic
mistake to neglect EU staffing," said a former UK diplomat who served in
Brussels. "The Germans understand the value of having people in the
institutions."

Britain no longer has a national at the highest level of staff, secretary
general. The last, Martin Westlake, who headed the economic and social affairs
committee, an EU quango, left this year to pursue a literary career.

Six Britons occupy the next most senior levels - director general - but most are
due to retire in the next few years.

Britain's representation in the European corridors of power is likely to get
worse, with British graduates either unwilling or unable to pursue a career in
Brussels.

Just 1,066 Britons applied last year to take the concours, an EU entry exam -
and a mere five passed. Yet even this is only enough to get onto the waiting
list: not a single Briton has got a permanent job in the EU since 2010.

By contrast, 2,891 Germans applied, 24 of whom were successful; and 2,866
French, 17 of whom passed.

One of Brussels's few senior Britons, Jonathan Faull, director-general in charge
of the internal market, blames the problem partly on poor language skills. "But
there is also the lack of interest in the EU, the fact that the European project
has become so unpopular in the UK and, finally, the insecurity ahead of a
possible referendum," he said.

To help address the problem the Foreign Office has restored its European
fast-stream programme, whereby British civil servants spend time at EU
institutions.

Attempts by David Cameron to relax the language rules to make it easier for
monolingual Britons received short shrift in 2011. Barroso, fluent in four
languages, told his aides: "I have learnt English for my job, why can't they
learn another language?"

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Kenny must show he is more than just a taoiseach in name

BYLINE: JUSTINE McCARTHY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1075 words


This week, Enda Kenny will have been a TD for 38 years, around the average life
expectancy for men in Zambia and Angola.

As he has spent just five of those years at the cabinet table, if nothing else
his career shows that the Mayo former school teacher has an unquenchable thirst
for mindnumbingly, humdrum parliamentary powerlessness. How will Kenny adjust to
being a proper, fully fledged taoiseach for the first time when he wakes up on
Monday, December 16, with the troika gone? Since becoming taoiseach-in-name in
the 2011 general election, Kenny has had the benefit of a double buffer. He
could blame all Ireland's ills on the government that went before him, and bear
scant responsibility for the bitter medicine being spooned out by the troika.
Our leader has had a more propitious economic meltdown than have the persecuted
citizens.

Out of adversity came his opportunity. In 2010, he survived a leadership
challenge in Fine Gael, only to be swept into government eight months later on a
tide of electoral insurrection. Fianna Fail's punishment by the people was
Kenny's reward, and so were the consequences of Ireland's lost economic
sovereignty. If the citizens' fate was already signed, Kenny's was sealed with a
kiss by Lady Luck. The less power he wielded, the more he was depicted as a
model statesman, making the cover of Time magazine and hobnobbing with Barack
Obama, Angela Merkel, François Hollande and the pinstriped Davos set.

The biggest achievements of this government were already written in the to-do
ledger even before Kenny entered Government Buildings, photogenically on foot.
The restoration of sovereignty was pencilled in for November 2013 back when it
was surrendered in 2010. Legislation on abortion was required due to the 2010
ruling in the A, B and C cases by the European Court of Human Rights. The
government did the bare minimum to meet the requirements.

All the while, Kenny has refused to do big, set-piece media interviews or engage
in televised debates, most notably to defend his money-squandering referendum on
the Seanad. While his powerful colleagues in Berlin, Paris and Washington have
applauded him, the people of Ireland, looking through a different prism, have
had few opportunities to assess his political leadership.

Kenny is an affable fellow. He's so nice that when he won the election the
doorman at a New York hotel where he and his wife had stayed on holidays texted
him congratulations.

He is capable of righteous anger, as he demonstrated with his scalding
anti-Vatican speech in the Dail when the Cloyne childabuse report was published.
He can be steely too. Ask Lucinda Creighton, the former European affairs
minister he dumped. But, with just two years as a fully blown taoiseach to carve
out his legacy before the 2016 election, does he have the vision thing? The
signs are ominous. If, for instance, he really cherished the republican ideal of
equality, he would not be able to stomach the visibly spreading signs of poverty
among the people he leads. While his government sent emissaries to Capitol Hill
to defend Ireland's nod-and-wink tax regime for multinationals and considered
rewarding tax-exiled Irish citizens for making token gestures of philanthropy,
there has been widespread human suffering. It is notable that one of the
troika's demands for remedying Ireland's finances, the reform of the legal
profession, remains undone after three years of austerity.

People are still emigrating in great numbers, and some are losing their homes.
Babies and toddlers well enough to go home are being kept in hospital for months
because the Health Service Executive (HSE) won't provide home care packages for
them. People with motor neurone disease and other terminal illnesses are having
their medical cards withdrawn. Advocates of the homeless, such as Peter McVerry,
say the problem of rough living is worse than ever. Soup kitchens are sprouting
up around the country.

Last week, Crosscare, the Dublin Catholic archdiocese's social services agency,
said its food bank couldn't cope with the growing demand. In one community last
week, 120 families sought help from Crosscare but it had only 40 food parcels to
distribute. It needs nothing short of the miracle of loaves and fishes to feed
the growing numbers of people in want.

Being affable is not a policy. Climbing Croagh Patrick and cycling the Ring of
Kerry in Dayglo do not put bread on the table. Kenny is going to realise this
when he takes over the reins next month. He cannot go on being all things to all
men.

The grand gesture has been the mark of this government. You might even call it
PR. We got a constitutional convention and promises of a super referendum day to
deal with its proposals, from reducing the voting age to gender-balancing
Bunreacht na hEireann. Yet a recommendation that the people be allowed to
nominate presidential candidates has not been approved by the government
parties. A salutary case of cherry-picking to preserve the cosy status quo.

To distract from the chaos of the health service, the government announced free
GP care for every child aged under six. Yet not a shovel has entered the ground
since planning for a new national children's hospital started seven years ago.
The announcement of a new location for this direly needed hospital was one of
the government's grandest flourishes. Despite expert advice that it be located
by a maternity hospital, it will be several miles away from the planned new
national maternity hospital at Elm Park in south Dublin. Two boards, comprising
22 members, have been appointed simultaneously to create the hospital. Last
July, the National Paediatric Hospital Development Board advertised a public
tender process for design-and-build contracts. In mid-October, it announced the
process was being discontinued, causing another three-month delay.

After six commissioned reports and with more than (EURO)35m already spent, only
the foolishly optimistic would say anything other than: "I'll believe it when I
see it."

If Kenny wants to prove he is more than a chief executive of an economy who can
implement his international masters' orders, he must grasp the children's
hospital project and bring it to fruition. It would provide a tangible
commitment to the care of future generations.

For Kenny, it would be something to show for his lifetime in Leinster House.

'BUILDING A CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL WOULD BE SOMETHING TO SHOW FOR KENNY'S LIFETIME
IN LEINSTER HOUSE'

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The great EU debate: voice of business must be heard

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1142 words


BETTER DEAL Lord Leach Chairman of Open Europe STAY IN Sir Mike Rake President
of the CBI

IN THE 1990s the process of eliminating trade barriers between Europe's member
states was hijacked by an ideologically driven elite bent on nation-building; on
giving flesh to the postwar dream of ending conflict by abolishing Europe's
patchwork quilt of selfish national states.

In constructing this project, the ends always justified the means, even if this
meant ignoring the electorate. Those in this country who opposed the UK joining
what was to be the crowning glory of European integration, the single currency,
were vilified as Little Englanders.

Now the game is up. Elected parliaments have become the sole accepted seal of
legitimacy. A new generation is saying that the EU is in desperate need of both
democratic and economic reform. The Dutch government has called time on "ever
closer union", the German chancellor Angela Merkel says we should "consider
whether we can give something back" to member states, and the Italian prime
minister Enrico Letta talks of treaty changes in the "very near future".

The latest sign of the changing times is an unprecedented joint call from
German, Swedish and UK business leaders - from the head of the world's largest
bank down to the Mittelstand, between them guiding companies employing about 1m
people - in favour of sweeping change. Germany's leading business magazine,
Wirtschafts Woche, wrote: "Now business leaders have spoken up - some of them
for the first time. This is not only good, but it is long overdue."

Britain needs to be attuned to the changing mood. Its current shouting match
between polarised camps doesn't help. I have lost count of the number of times
I've been asked by the BBC to take part in or stage a debate between "europhile"
and "eurosceptic" business leaders. Spurious facts and figures are thrown around
- "3m jobs will be lost if we leave the EU" or, "if we withdrew, the UK would
instantly be freed from all EU regulatory costs".

The reality is that business tends to be neither die-hard europhiles nor
convinced "outers" - with exceptions, most are in between. Business values
access to European markets but doesn't see why it has to come with a political
union. On balance, business still likes the EU's combined weight in trade talks
but worries about protectionist tendencies and the dampening effect of Brussels
regulation on firms competing in global markets. As the economic climate
hardens, more business people on the Continent make the same analysis,
concluding that we have to lay grand ideological projects to rest and focus on
where the EU can add value.

The objective is therefore simple. The EU's defining purpose must be the single
market - it doesn't have to be the only thing the EU does, but it is the primary
mission. The task at hand is equally simple: maximise trade - including in the
hugely underdeveloped EU services market - and minimise non-trade costs. Once we
have tested the limits of reform, we can see if it still makes sense to remain
an EU member.

So it's time for business to make its voice heard. It won't be easy to achieve
the reforms we need if we are to reverse Europe's economic decline and win back
the support of our electorates. If Europe's wealth and job creators throw their
weight behind this agenda, not even the most detached politician or eurocrat
will be able to resist.

Come to our debate Does Business Need the EU? on Thursday, details p2 WITH
European elections next year and a possible referendum on the horizon after the
2015 general election, for British businesses - large, medium and small - the
starting gun has been fired on the critical campaign to set out the compelling
arguments for continued membership of the EU, while securing important reforms
that will make it fit for the 21st century.

The debate must focus on facts, not fiction, which is why the CBI has published
a comprehensive report setting out the business case for continued UK membership
of a reformed EU.

The benefits of membership to business significantly outweigh the costs. The
creation of the 500m-strong single market has had a positive impact on
companies, not to mention the investment that has come in from around the world,
helping to make the UK the leading destination in Europe for foreign direct
investment.

The EU has also signed free trade deals with nearly 50 partners, giving the UK
access to markets worth £15 trillion, and is working towards opening up other
markets that would double that. All this has directly boosted the living
standards of UK citizens.

But, in some ways, the "unseen" benefits are just as important. They reflect how
integrated we are with our European partners and other international economies.
Take supply chains, for example. Being part of the single market has helped the
UK take advantage of a vast array of cross-border supply chains throughout the
EU. Domestic companies can purchase products or services from the most efficient
providers more easily and can also increase their own exports by selling into
these giant European supply chains. Firms further down the supply chain can
often rely on the EU market, even if this is not entirely obvious on the
surface.

A bus maker may produce engines here but find it more efficient to source the
chassis from elsewhere in Europe. Or a food wholesaler may source some produce
from down the road and some from different EU states, before selling around the
world. Integration in these pan-European supplies means imports can be every bit
as important to UK competitiveness as exports - and keeping orders up relies on
firms at the top of the chain to work across Europe. Vital sectors such as
automotive and aerospace, which continue to employ many thousands here, have
used these supply chains as the foundation for global success.

Being competitive globally is ultimately what will create more and better jobs
here at home. Pure export and import figures no longer tell the whole story.
With supply chains crossing borders and industries, it means product components
can be imported and exported multiple times before becoming part of a final sold
good. In 2009, $207bn of the UK's $293bn of exports to the rest of the EU fed
into other industries rather than being consumed directly as a final product. It
would be foolhardy at best to put these relationships and this market access at
risk.

The EU is far from perfect. Much has been written about the weight of Brussels
regulation and the EU's authority has crept into areas where national
parliaments are better placed to make decisions. As Jose Manuel Barroso said
recently, the EU must refocus to boost jobs and create growth across the
Continent. Ambition and action should be directed to where the EU can add real
momentum to make Europe more competitive globally and give all our young people
a better future.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

The great EU debate: voice of business must be heard

BYLINE: Mike Rake; Lord Leach

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1128 words


IN THE 1990s the process of eliminating trade barriers between Europe's member
states was hijacked by an ideologically driven elite bent on nation-building; on
giving flesh to the postwar dream of ending conflict by abolishing Europe's
patchwork quilt of selfish national states.

In constructing this project, the ends always justified the means, even if this
meant ignoring the electorate. Those in this country who opposed the UK joining
what was to be the crowning glory of European integration, the single currency,
were vilified as Little Englanders.

Now the game is up. Elected parliaments have become the sole accepted seal of
legitimacy. A new generation is saying that the EU is in desperate need of both
democratic and economic reform. The Dutch government has called time on "ever
closer union", the German chancellor Angela Merkel says we should "consider
whether we can give something back" to member states, and the Italian prime
minister Enrico Letta talks of treaty changes in the "very near future".

The latest sign of the changing times is an unprecedented joint call from
German, Swedish and UK business leaders - from the head of the world's largest
bank down to the Mittelstand, between them guiding companies employing about 1m
people - in favour of sweeping change. Germany's leading business magazine,
Wirtschafts Woche, wrote: "Finally protests from business! Now business leaders
have spoken up - some of them for the first time. This is not only good, but it
is long overdue."

Britain needs to be attuned to the changing mood. Its current shouting match
between polarised camps doesn't help. I have lost count of the number of times
I've been asked by the BBC to take part in or stage a debate between "europhile"
and "eurosceptic" business leaders. Spurious facts and figures are thrown around
- "3m jobs will be lost if we leave the EU" or, "if we withdrew, the UK would
instantly be freed from all EU regulatory costs".

The reality is that business tends to be neither die-hard europhiles nor
convinced "outers" - with exceptions, most are in between. Business values
access to European markets but doesn't see why it has to come with a political
union. On balance, business still likes the EU's combined weight in trade talks
but worries about protectionist tendencies and the dampening effect of Brussels
regulation on firms competing in global markets. As the economic climate
hardens, more business people on the Continent make the same analysis,
concluding that we have to lay grand ideological projects to rest and focus on
where the EU can add value.

The objective is therefore simple. The EU's defining purpose must be the single
market - it doesn't have to be the only thing the EU does, but it is the primary
mission. The task at hand is equally simple: maximise trade - including in the
hugely underdeveloped EU services market - and minimise non-trade costs. Once we
have tested the limits of reform, we can see if it still makes sense to remain
an EU member.

So it's time for business to make its voice heard. It won't be easy to achieve
the reforms we need if we are to reverse Europe's economic decline and win back
the support of our electorates. But at a time when all eyes are on growth, if
Europe's wealth and job creators throw their weight behind this agenda, not even
the most detached politician or eurocrat will be able to resist.

WITH European elections next year and a possible referendum on the horizon after
the 2015 general election, for British businesses - large, medium and small -
the starting gun has been fired on the critical campaign to set out the
compelling arguments for continued membership of the EU, while securing
important reforms that will make it fit for the 21st century.

The debate must focus on facts, not fiction, which is why the CBI has published
a comprehensive report setting out the business case for continued UK membership
of a reformed EU.

The benefits of membership to business significantly outweigh the costs. The
creation of the 500m-strong single market has had a positive impact on
companies, not to mention the investment that has come in from around the world,
helping to make the UK the leading destination in Europe for foreign direct
investment.

The EU has also signed free trade deals with nearly 50 partners, giving the UK
access to markets worth £15 trillion, and is working towards opening up other
markets that would double that. All this has directly boosted the living
standards of UK citizens.

But, in some ways, the "unseen" benefits are just as important. They reflect how
integrated we are with our European partners and other international economies.
Take supply chains, for example. Being part of the single market has helped the
UK take advantage of a vast array of cross-border supply chains throughout the
EU. Domestic companies can purchase products or services from the most efficient
providers more easily and can also increase their own exports by selling into
these giant European supply chains. Firms further down the supply chain can
often rely on the EU market, even if this is not entirely obvious on the
surface.

A bus maker may produce engines here but find it more efficient to source the
chassis from elsewhere in Europe. Or a food wholesaler may source some produce
from down the road and some from different EU states, before selling around the
world. Integration in these pan-European supplies means imports can be every bit
as important to UK competitiveness as exports - and keeping orders up relies on
firms at the top of the chain to work across Europe. Vital sectors such as
automotive and aerospace, which continue to employ many thousands here, have
used these supply chains as the foundation for global success.

Being competitive globally is ultimately what will create more and better jobs
here at home. Pure export and import figures no longer tell the whole story.
With supply chains crossing borders and industries, it means product components
can be imported and exported multiple times before becoming part of a final sold
good. In 2009, $207bn of the UK's $293bn of exports to the rest of the EU fed
into other industries rather than being consumed directly as a final product. It
would be foolhardy at best to put these relationships and this market access at
risk.

The EU is far from perfect. Much has been written about the weight of Brussels
regulation and the EU's authority has crept into areas where national
parliaments are better placed to make decisions. As Jose Manuel Barroso said
recently, the EU must refocus to boost jobs and create growth across the
Continent. Ambition and action should be directed to where the EU can add real
momentum to make Europe more competitive globally and give all our young people
a better future.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Mullen throws hat in ring for Euro election

BYLINE: Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 472 words


RONAN MULLEN, an independent senator from Galway, is to stand for election to
the European parliament next summer in the Midlands-North-West constituency.

Mullen, who topped the poll on the National University of Ireland election panel
for the Seanad, has begun to raise funds and to organise support staff across
the 15-county constituency.

One of the most prominent pro-life campaigners in the Oireachtas, Mullen is the
only declared independent candidate in the field apart from Marian Harkin, a
sitting MEP. This may give him a head start on Colm Keaveney, the former Labour
party chairman, and Declan Ganley, the founder of the Libertas movement who
contested the last European elections in what was then the North-West
constituency.

A former student-union president in University College Galway, Mullen was a
press officer in the Catholic archdiocese of Dublin for five years. He was
called to the Bar in 2003 and lectures in law at Blanchardstown Institute of
Technology.

Mullen said he was asked to stand for Fine Gael in the North-West constituency
in 2009 but declined because he was intent on remaining independent.

He is likely to campaign strongly on social issues, and will point to his track
record as a member of a committee on Ireland's future in Europe, which was
appointed after the first Lisbon treaty referendum in June 2008.

"I was active and vocal in seeking guarantees for Ireland's right to determine
its own laws on sensitive social issues," he said.

"We did get guarantees in relation to life, family and education issues in the
run-up to the second Lisbon treaty and I think I played a big role in
articulating the need for those."

Mullen and members of Sinn Fein were defeated in the Seanad last week when they
tabled a motion demanding high-voltage electricity pylons be laid underground.
EirGrid has sought permission to lay a high-capacity power line from Cork
through Tipperary, Kilkenny, Laois and Kildare.

Three Labour senators - John Kelly, John Whelan and Denis Landy - abstained. The
government defeated the motion by just one vote. Kildare and Laois are in
Midlands-North-West.

Last year Mullen defended his behaviour during a visit by a group of women who
spoke to Oireachtas members about their experience of travelling to Britain to
terminate pregnancies after fatal foetal abnormalities were diagnosed, denying
he was discourteous.

He also arranged a briefing for Oireachtas members by a group called One Day
More which was campaigning for perinatal hospice care in maternity hospitals for
women who did not expect their babies to survive long after birth.

"I went into politics in 2007 on a human-dignity platform and that has always
been my way of looking at policy and legislation," he said. "I have been vocal
about the need to criminalise the users of persons in prostitution and of older
persons."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mullen: dignity platform

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Politicians don't all lie, Russell, but the adults do need to talk

BYLINE: CAMILLA CAVENDISH

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1187 words


Icame home on Monday to find my nineyear-old son, whose usual after-school
activity is building an aeroplane or climbing a tree, watching BBC Parliament.

He was engrossed in a select committee hearing on the Grimsey review of small
shops. I exchanged a stunned glance with his elder brother and tucked a blanket
round the four-year-old, who had opted to go to sleep on the sofa rather than
endure more statistics about the high street.

Since developing this new interest, Middle Son has perfected a hilarious skit
which portrays elderly lords snoring on benches while others drone on. Yet when
I joked that BBC Parliament could be marketed to mothers as a cheap infant
sedative, he was brusque: "Mummy, it's important. Business rates are crippling
shops."

Dead right. But not half as much fun as Russell Brand's blast against our
democracy. The fact that 9m people have watched the YouTube footage of the
comedian being interviewed by Jeremy Paxman on Newsnight last month shows just
how deep runs the sense of powerlessness and frustration.

This is not a country that is "apathetic" about politics: it's a country that is
furious about it. Many people fervently believe Brand's line that MPs routinely
"lie and deceive" and are indifferent to voters. Few seem upset by Paxman's
failure to challenge the patent untruth that all politicians are fraudsters, or
his laconic admission that he himself can barely be bothered to vote.

It's easy to see why. The impression that politicians will say anything to get
into power is fuelled by the fact that it is partially true. Parties break
manifesto promises. Tony Blair brought in top-up fees for students and Gordon
Brown signed the Lisbon treaty without the promised EU referendum. Brown raised
the top rate of income tax. The coalition raised VAT, and imposed a top-down
reorganisation of the NHS.

Nor is it surprising that people think MPs are useless when they get into power.
Think of PFI, the Millennium Dome, the NHS computer system, Snatch Land Rovers
and other disasters now being exposed by the redoubtable Margaret Hodge MP and
her public accounts committee.

It's my job to rail against such failures. And, yes, I enjoy it. But the
narrative that MPs are all fraudsters is too easy. And it's just wrong - the
kind of thing that helped fascist parties to power in the 1930s. There are a few
venal types, but the vast majority of MPs I meet are decent, earnest people who
do their best in a difficult and peculiar job.

I am acutely conscious of the differences between us. MPs have had the courage
to stand for election and to risk defeat; I have not. They are accountable to
the public in a way that I am not. They appear in TV studios with files full of
warnings from their offices about what to say in the three minutes they will be
allotted to talk about a complex issue. I can turn up with a scribble on a
Post-it, knowing that the worst that can happen is that I will look stupid, not
that I will lose my job.

The more I've seen of government in the past 10 years, the more I begin to
understand why it is so hard to get things done. Ministers are plagued by
interest groups and under constant attack from other political parties. They are
always trying to bridge what David Miliband once called the "expectations gap"
between what their parties promise and what the state can realistically achieve.
And they have to bring people with them, for politics is a messy compromise,
more Borgen than West Wing.

The media play a vital and noble role in holding governments to account. But
they must also accept some responsibility for the malaise. The 24-hour news
cycle contributes to a relentless crisis mentality. In his MacTaggart lecture
six years ago Paxman confessed that on some days he felt he should start
Newsnight by saying: "Not much has happened today. I'd go to bed if I were you."
Instead, he admitted, "the story needs to be kept moving ... it needs to be
constantly hyped".

Instead of resisting pressure to respond to these "crises", politicians often
panic and promise the impossible. The resulting search for gimmicks is a huge
distraction from the much duller business of managing public services or writing
legislation.

There is a dangerous symbiosis here, because too many people in both the media
and politics find detail rather dull. In 2004, wading through successive drafts
of the EU constitution, I was incensed to meet MPs who hadn't bothered to read
it. And looking back, I realise that astonishingly little thanks was ever given
to David Heathcoat-Amory, the Tory MP who worked tirelessly for over a year to
challenge clause after clause in Brussels. He would have got better press if
he'd just stayed at home and gone on Question Time.

I suppose we are all hypocrites, really. MPs over-promise and under-deliver.
Voters don't want MPs to earn the kind of salaries that the most talented could
command elsewhere, and then complain that too many candidates are either monkeys
or millionaires. We criticise them for being "out of touch", but disapprove of
them taking second jobs in the real world.

Parts of the press and big business are currently raging about the government's
failure to build a new Heathrow. But not doing so was a Tory manifesto
commitment. Others fume that wealthy pensioners must lose benefits.

But David Cameron promised to protect them in this parliament.

This doesn't mean we don't need drastic change. We desperately need an end to
party politicking. The appalling spectacle of PMQs has done as much damage to
the image of politics as the expenses scandal. Tony Blair cut PMQs down from
twice to once weekly when he realised how much time the prepping took away from
governing. The opposition must be heard, but not in a bully boys' playground.

Sensible politicians should also say when they agree. Privately, there is
cross-party consensus on some long-term questions: elderly care, the deficit,
even the NHS. If voters think all politicians are the same, why not be brave and
work together on some challenges in the national interest, rather than scoring
cheap points off one another? Wasn't that what people wanted from coalition?
Finally, we need more ministers who have actually run something. Aneurin Bevan
said "campaign in poetry, govern in prose". But he was a rare MP who could do
both. The dearth of ministers with management experience is the flipside of MPs
who have to parrot the party line to win promotion, and a system in which the
most respected independent-minded politicians, such as Kate Hoey and Frank
Field, are often sidelined.

Logic surely dictates that we move towards a US-style separation of powers,
appointing more experienced outsiders to ministerial jobs and freeing MPs to
genuinely represent their constituents and hold the executive to account.

That's my kind of revolution. It's not Russell Brand's, of course. His is all
flash and gusto; mine has to do with complexity, subordinate clauses and - oh
yes - the Grimsey review.

If comedians ruled the world, Tanya Gold, News Review, page 12
camilla.cavendish@sunday-times.co.uk

'BRAND'S REVOLUTION IS ALL FLASH AND GUSTO. MINE HAS TO DO WITH COMPLEXITY'

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

CITY FIGHTS TO STAY IN EUROPE;
For London's financial hub there is no doubt - out of the EU means out of the
game. By Iain Dey

SECTION: BUSINESS;NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1562 words


On a side street in Geneva's main shopping district, a glass-pannelled door
leads to the principal office of Europe's largest hedge fund.

Alan Howard, Britain's richest hedge fund manager, moved himself and 45 of his
top traders from Mayfair to the picturesque Swiss lakeside city three years ago.

Everyone thought Howard was fleeing high taxes in Britain; the 50% rate on high
earners was announced in the dying days of the Labour government.

They were wrong.

Howard wasn't worried about a raid on his £1.5bn ((EURO)1.8bn) fortune, he was
trying to escape an obscure piece of legislation being pushed through by
Brussels that he thought could put him out of business. He wanted a bolt hole
that could become his company's headquarters if the rules turned out badly.

In the end, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive was less
draconian than feared. Yet Howard appears to maintain a healthy scepticism
towards the European Union.

He is one of the few business leaders not wanting to make friends with Brussels.
Now that there is a prospect of a referendum on Britain's role in Europe -
certainly within the next few years - big business is lining up to protect the
single market.

The CBI will release a poll tomorrow that will show its membership
overwhelmingly in favour of staying in. The City is leading the charge. While
Brussels may have curbed bankers' bonuses and strangled vast sections of the
economy in red tape, Europe's single market, and even the single currency, have
been huge moneyspinners for the titans of the Square Mile and Canary Wharf.

A staggering 84% of Britain's financial sector executives are resolutely in
favour of remaining at the centre of the European Union, according to a survey
published last week by lobby group The City UK.

A further 10% of those polled said that they would be happy for Britain to leave
the European Union, but only if our position in the single market was
guaranteed. Only 5% said they wanted Britain to go it alone.

"It's not surprising to see the City is pro-European, but to see 84% support -
that's a big number," said Mats Persson, director of Open Europe, a think tank
supporting reform of Brussels.

"Yet the survey also showed frustration with Brussels."

Financial services is the UK economy's most important industry, accounting for
about 13% of our GDP and generating £63bn in taxes last year alone.

Yet what's good for the City is not necessarily in the best interests of the
rest of British business. A separate poll of mostly small businesses published
on Friday gave a radically different view on Europe: some 46% of those polled by
Business for Britain claimed that the costs of EU membership outweigh the
benefits. Will the British electorate care about the views of bankers - or power
companies, or supermarkets - when they eventually go to the polls? GOLDMAN SACHS
executives often claim that the secret of London's success as a modern financial
centre lies in the creation of the euro.

When Europe's single currency went live in electronic form on January 1, 1999,
it gave the bank licence to cut costs by pooling staff in London.

There was no longer any need to have a Dutch team trading guilders in Amsterdam,
and a Belgian operation to trade francs - the lion's share of the lucrative
trading work could be consolidated in one place.

The City was the obvious place to locate this new hub, given that it was already
the bank's biggest base in Europe. More importantly, particularly for the
American executives seconded to Europe, everyone spoke English.

Now, 85% of Goldman's 7,000 staff in Europe are based in London, even though
only 35% of the firm's European revenues have any connection to UK clients.All
the other big international banks also moved their investment banking operations
to the City, including Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas and Société Générale. As Boris
Johnson, the mayor of London, frequently points out, there are now more French
bankers in London than there are in Paris.

Richard Gnodde, the co-head of Goldman's London business, recently warned that
if Britain left the EU, the bank would be forced to move jobs to the continent.

"There was a City long before the EU was ever thought of," Gnodde said. "In or
out, there will be a City for the next 100 years. The question is: what kind of
City will it be?" Gerry Grimstone, chairman of insurer Standard Life, and also
of The City UK, made clear how he views the future at a recent dinner in the
Mansion House: "I do not believe the City's pre-eminent position will survive if
we lose our role as Europe's financial capital, and I do not believe we can
maintain that position if we are not part of the single market."

About 78% of all foreign exchange trades in the European Union take place in the
City, along with 74% of all interest rate derivative trades. Britain generates
24% of the economic output created in the EU by financial services and is home
to 19% of the jobs.

All in all, the financial services sector generated £63bn in taxes for the
British exchequer last year, according to The City UK - £20bn of which can be
traced back to "internationally mobile" firms that could easily move elsewhere
if Britain left the EU. Interestingly, the organisation's own survey suggested
this was something of an empty threat. Only 38% of the finance bosses questioned
said they were likely to relocate jobs from the UK to continental Europe in the
event of a British exit from the EU.

Mark Hoban MP, the former City minister, said: "What was glossed over in The
City UK's survey is that two-thirds of the respondents would be more likely to
support the EU if the single market was reformed. That was a key part of the
prime minister's speech earlier this year, when he promised a referendum."

SIR BOB WORCESTER, the legendary pollster and chairman of Ipsos Mori, worked for
James Callaghan in the run-up to the 1975 referendum on EU membership.

Callaghan was Harold Wilson's foreign secretary at the time. In January 1975,
the electorate was finely balanced on the European question, with polls showing
that 55% favoured membership of what was then called the Common Market. By June,
that had jumped to 67%, which reflected the final result.

"When we asked people afterwards what it was that had swayed them, the views of
business was a big part of it," said Worcester, whose firm conducted The City
UK's poll.

A lot has changed since 1975. Public respect for business at large has been
substantially eroded by the financial crisis, corporate tax avoidance and the
general trends of globalisation.

While the global banks and multinationals are broadly supportive of maintaining
the status quo with Europe, dozens of Britain's most successful entrepreneurs
are backing calls for reform.

Open Europe's supporters include Lord Wolfson, the chief executive of Next, and
Luke Johnson, the leisure entrepreneur.

Business for Britain, one of a handful of campaign groups that has sprung up
since the prospect of an EU referendum was raised by the prime minister, has
attracted backing from the likes of John Caudwell, the founder of Phones 4U and
Sir Rocco Forte.

The Eurosceptic lobby argues that while roughly half of Britain's international
trade is with the European Union, it is still only half. Britain's exports to
emerging markets remain small, but are growing quickly.

Big business argues that the EU remains the single largest economy in the world,
bigger than America and Japan combined.

In addition, Britain's trade with countries outside the EU is all conducted
under the auspices of trading agreements negotiated centrally by Brussels. If
Britain was on its own, there would be no legal basis upon which UK firms could
trade with many countries.

Others would charge crippling levies.

However, a report last week by Jonathan Portes, from the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research, disputed this. He argued that Britain's membership
of the World Trade Organisation made the prospect of this disaster scenario
relatively low risk.

"The EU debate has moved on from 'In' or 'Out'," said John Mills, the founder of
mail order company JML Direct, who is a sizeable donor to the Labour party. "It
is now up to business leaders to define what sort of EU they want to see emerge
from the prime minister's renegotiation."

Clegg's red herring Nick Clegg has claimed that leaving the EU would "jeopardise
up to 3m jobs in this country", but the deputy prime minister's warning has been
rubbished by a top economist.

Any such suggestions are "totally implausible, and certainly not based on
evidence", said Jonathan Portes, who heads the National Institute of Economic
and Social Research.

Portes, who has been a vocal critic of government spending cuts and was a senior
adviser to the last Labour government, said there was no concrete evidence of
any connection between EU membership and employment. In a paper published last
week, he also attacked Eurosceptics who claim that Britain would benefit from
leaving the EU because we import more from the other 27 member nations than we
export to them.

"This shows a complete misunderstanding of the basic principle of comparative
advantage, and why trade is good for prosperity," Portes wrote.

"Buying things that foreigners can produce more cheaply and efficiently than we
can raises our welfare rather than lowering it, by allowing us to concentrate on
doing things we can do (relatively) well."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: European union: Nick Clegg with Spanish wife Miriam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

PM's natural allies push him into an EU ambush

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1050 words


The Church of England used to be known as the Conservative party at prayer.
Today the CBI might be called "the Conservative party at prawn sandwiches". It
is holding its annual conference in west London tomorrow where an unholy row is
brewing between two otherwise natural allies.

These days the CBI claims to be the "voice of business" after abandoning its
longer name, the Confederation of British Industry. John Cridland, its
director-general, left no doubt where that voice was coming from when he
identified five "hair-raising" things in Ed Miliband''s "socialist" party
conference speech - from his freeze on energy prices to proposals to slap higher
taxes on big business.

The prime minister is expected to address the CBI conference but Miliband won't
be there. His place will be taken by the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, who is
unlikely to get an ovation for demanding the extension of the "living wage", a
costlier version of the minimum wage.

Meanwhile, at a venue of his own choosing, the Labour leader intends to use his
biggest speech since his party's Brighton conference to rebut David Cameron's
charge that Labour never wants to talk about the recovering economy. In
Miliband's view, high prices and low wages are the economy which only a Labour
government can rectify.

Given this resumption of the traditional stand-off between capitalists and
Labour, it comes as a surprise that the centrepiece of the CBI's conference will
be more awkward for the Conservatives than the opposition.

Tomorrow the CBI is publishing its biggest research document yet, a 180-page
report entitled Our Global Future, to make the case for Britain's continued
membership of the European Union.

Four days later the Tory backbencher James Wharton will resume the hard work of
piloting through the Commons his private member's bill, backed by David Cameron.
for a referendum on the EU.

Triumphalist Eurosceptics, many of whom want the chance to vote "no" to whatever
Cameron negotiates, will be inflamed by the upsurge of outspoken Europhilia from
business and industry.

British business federations are longtime supporters of Europe. Not only were
they prominent campaigners for "yes" in the 1975 referendum; in the 1990s many
of them went as far as backing sterling entering the euro.

The euro campaign has been abandoned but the EU flame still burns - the CBI will
report that in a referendum eight out of 10 of its members would vote for
Britain to remain in the EU.

On top of the advantages of trade access for businesses, Our Global Future will
also claim that EU membership is worth about £1,225 a year to every individual
in the UK - well over £3,000 per family. Scots have said they would vote for
independence if they were each just £500 a year better off.

The significance of the CBI report is that the pro-European fightback is
starting here. CBI members will provide the cash and the human resources for the
"yes" campaign.

Outside the privacy of the members' smoking room in Westminster, where Nicholas
Soames reportedly berated the ambitious Adam Afriyie as a "chateau bottled ...
shit", pro-European Tories have been reluctant to speak out recently, perhaps
fearing retribution from activists similar to that dished out by the Tea Party
to moderate Republicans in America. The CBI is doing the talking for them.

For all Labour's doubts about British business, it will join the Liberal
Democrats in seizing on the CBI report, claiming it proves that the referendum
bill is an unnecessary distraction in which the prime minister is putting the
obsessions of his own backbenchers ahead of the national interest.

On the other side, the 100-plus Tory Eurosceptic rebel MPs already regard the
promise of a referendum after the next election as the weakest compromise they
are prepared to accept. Wharton's supporters estimate that about 20 of them will
support Afriyie's amendment for a vote this parliament, perhaps provoked by
Soames's vintage insults.

The real danger in getting the bill through will come from Labour and the Lib
Dems. The Labour leadership is not taking a public position; Miliband and most
of his MPs will be absent from the Commons on Friday. But enough of them will
stay behind to weigh down the proceedings with rafts of amendments.

Cameron may have said he will find parliamentary time for Wharton, but there are
only three private business Fridays until Christmas. The longer it takes to get
the bill past MPs, the later it will arrive in the House of Lords - with the
hard deadline of May's European parliamentary elections approaching.

The bill has no legal force binding the next government, but it was a concession
designed to prove Cameron's commitment to putting British membership in
question. Without it he will be all the more vulnerable to UKIP's attack.

Conservatives continue to be optimistic about their chances in the 2015 general
election. The latest boost has come from Steve Fisher, lecturer in political
sociology at Trinity College, Oxford, and one of the brains behind the highly
accurate exit polls in the 2005 and 2010 general elections.

Fisher looks at opinion poll standings and feeds them into the track record of
polls in previous electoral cycles. This method pretty much reverses current
standings when projected forward to May 2015. Instead of Labour on 40% and the
Conservatives on 32%, he projects the Conservatives will be on 38%, ahead of
Labour on 33%.

"It is extremely unlikely that Ed Miliband will do as well as Tony Blair in 1997
or 2001 but it would not be surprising if he did worse than Gordon Brown or
Michael Foot," Fisher concludes. Overall he gives the Conservatives an 88%
chance of being the largest party, if only a 57% likelihood of an overall
majority.

Miliband, who is playing a minimalist strategy aiming to keep his party in the
high thirties, told a party meeting last week that it will be "an extremely
tight election".

Where the academics and the politicians agree is that the outcome of the next
election will be hard to predict; or, as the pointy-heads put it in Oxford, "the
prediction intervals for shares of the vote are enormous".

By speaking up for Europe now the "voice of business" believes it is acting in
the national interest - at the price of making it more difficult for the prime
minister to manage his own party.

@adamboultonsky

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Brussels ready to fund 'yes' vote for referendum

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 254 words


THE European Union has begun quiet moves towards funding a "yes" campaign in any
future British membership referendum.

The constitutional committee of the Brussels parliament has sent a confidential
document to lawyers asking for advice on how Europe can participate in national
referendums.

EU law prohibits European interference in elections or referendums held in
individual nation states, but the parliament believes a detailed study of
different national rules may enable it to find ways of legally sidestepping the
restriction.

Disclosure of the Brussels move comes ahead of the Commons debate to be held on
Friday about a bill promising to hold a referendum on Britain's EU membership by
2017.

The bill, put forward by the Tory backbencher James Wharton and supported by
David Cameron, is likely to face filibustering tactics by Labour Europhiles as
well as cross-party attempts to destroy it by pro-Europeans in the House of
Lords.

In the short term it has succeeded in patching up Conservative splits on Europe.

Daniel Hannan, a Tory MEP and committee member, said: "The British referendum is
the one that 90% [of MEPs] are thinking of ... if the law prevents them from
doing something, rather than amending the law they'll find a way of sidestepping
it. They are nervous about there being a British referendum."

Dr Michael Pinto-Duschinsky, a senior consultant on constitutional affairs at
the Policy Exchange think tank, said: "Any referendum campaign should be
conducted solely by UK citizens and without interference."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Quitting EU would be dangerous, warns CBI

BYLINE: Kathryn Cooper

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words


BIG business will this week give its overwhelming backing to Britain remaining
in the European Union.

Corporate leaders will warn at their annual conference tomorrow that quitting
the single market would have "serious" consequences for London's position as the
world's financial centre.

The City has also backed Britain remaining at the heart of Europe, suggesting a
concerted effort by multinationals to influence the debate.

Their warning comes as research by British Influence, a campaign group, has
revealed that 50,000 businesses could face immediate closure if the country left
the EU, putting 1.5m jobs at risk.

David Cameron will put British membership to the public vote in 2017, although
there have been backbench calls for a referendum before the general election.

Eight out of 10 members of the CBI, the business organisation, including 77% of
smaller firms, would vote to remain within the 28-nation union if a referendum
were held tomorrow. The organisation polled 400 members.

John Cridland, directorgeneral of the CBI, will say at its conference tomorrow
that the country has derived huge benefits from its position within the single
market.

"London is ... the place where global business happens.

Leaving the EU would seriously threaten our position as the world's number one
financial centre," he will say.

More than 80% of financialservices executives are also in favour of remaining
within Europe, according to a poll by The City UK, a lobbying group, last week.
A separate poll of 1,000 bosses by YouGov, commissioned by the eurosceptic
Business for Britain group, found that 46% believed the costs of the single
market outweighed the benefits, against 37% who believed the opposite.

However, it also found that 9% of large companies, 8% of medium-sized businesses
and 5% of smaller firms believed they would close if Britain left the EU -
equivalent to about 50,000 businesses, according to analysis by British
Influence.

PM's natural allies push him into an EU ambush, Adam Boulton, page 33

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cridland: 'EU benefits'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

CITY FIGHTS TO STAY IN EUROPE;
Business is divided over the EU - but the Square Mile insists we must stay in,
writes Iain Dey

BYLINE: Iain Dey

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1660 words


On a side street in Geneva's main shopping district, a glass-panelled door
sandwiched between two fashion boutiques leads to the principal office of
Europe's largest hedge fund.

Alan Howard, Britain's richest hedge fund manager, moved himself and 45 of his
top traders from Mayfair to the picturesque Swiss lakeside city three years ago.

Everyone thought Howard was fleeing high taxes in Britain; the 50% rate on high
earners was announced in the dying days of the Labour government.

Everyone was wrong. The Brevan Howard boss was not worried about a raid on his
£1.5bn fortune, he was trying to escape an obscure piece of legislation being
pushed through by Brussels that he thought could put him out of business. He
wanted a bolt hole that could become his company's headquarters if the rules
turned out badly.

In the end, the alternative investment fund managers directive was less
draconian than feared. Yet Howard appears to maintain a healthy scepticism
towards the European Union.

He is one of the few business leaders not wanting to make friends with Brussels.
Now that there is a prospect of a referendum on Britain's role in Europe -
certainly within the next few years - big business is lining up to protect the
single market.

The CBI will release a poll tomorrow that will show its membership is
overwhelmingly in favour of staying in. The City is leading the charge. While
Brussels may have curbed bankers' bonuses and strangled vast sections of the
economy with red tape, the single market, and even the single currency, have
been huge money-spinners for the titans of the Square Mile and Canary Wharf.

A staggering 84% of Britain's financial sector executives are resolutely in
favour of remaining at the centre of the EU, according to a survey published
last week by the City UK, a lobby group.

A further 10% of those polled said they would be happy for Britain to leave the
EU, but only if our position in the single market were guaranteed. Only 5% said
they wanted Britain to go it alone.

"It's not surprising to see the City is pro-European, but to see 84% support -
that's a big number," said Mats Persson, director of Open Europe, a think tank
that supports reform of Brussels. "Yet the survey also showed a high degree of
frustration with Brussels."

Financial services is the UK economy's most important industry, accounting for
about 13% of GDP and generating £63bn in taxes last year alone.

However, what's good for the City is not necessarily in the best interests of
the rest of British business. A separate survey of mostly small businesses,
published on Friday, gave a radically different view on Europe: some 46% of
those polled by Business for Britain believed that that the costs of EU
membership outweigh the benefits.

Will British voters care about the views of bankers - or power companies, or
supermarkets - when they eventually go to the polls? GOLDMAN SACHS executives
often claim that the secret of London's success as a modern financial centre
lies in the creation of the euro.

When Europe's single currency went live in electronic form on January 1, 1999,
it gave the bank licence to cut costs by pooling staff in London.

There was no longer any need to have a Dutch team trading guilders in Amsterdam,
and a Belgian operation to trade francs - the lion's share of the lucrative
trading work could be consolidated in one place.

The City was the obvious place to locate this new hub, given that it was already
the bank's biggest base in Europe. More importantly, particularly for the
American executives seconded to Europe, everyone spoke English.

Now, 85% of Goldman's 7,000 staff in Europe are based in London, even though
only 35% of the firm's European revenues have any connection to UK clients.

All the other big international banks also moved their investment banking
operations to the City, including Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas and Société
Générale. As Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, frequently points out, there
are now more French bankers in London than there are in Paris.

Richard Gnodde, the co-head of Goldman's London business, recently warned that
if Britain left the EU, the bank would be forced to move jobs to the Continent.

"There was a City long before the EU was ever thought of," Gnodde said. "In or
out, there will be a City for the next 100 years. The question is: what kind of
City will it be?" Gerry Grimstone, chairman of the insurer Standard Life, and
also of the City UK, made clear how he views the future at a recent dinner at
the Mansion House: "I do not believe the City's pre-eminent position will
survive if we lose our role as Europe's financial capital, and I do not believe
we can maintain that position if we are not part of the single market."

About 78% of all foreign exchange trades in the EU take place in the City, and
74% of all interest rate derivative trades. Britain generates 24% of the
economic output created in the EU by financial services and is home to 19% of
the jobs.

In total, the financial services sector generated £63bn in taxes for the
exchequer last year, according to the City UK - £20bn of which can be traced
back to "internationally mobile" firms that could easily move elsewhere if
Britain left the EU.

Interestingly, the lobby group's own survey suggested this was something of an
empty threat. Only 38% of the finance bosses questioned said they would be
likely to relocate jobs to continental Europe in the event of a British exit.

Mark Hoban MP, the former City minister, said: "What was glossed over in the
City UK's survey is that two-thirds of the respondents would be more likely to
support the EU if the single market was reformed. That was a key part of the
prime minister's speech earlier this year, when he promised a referendum."

SIR ROBERT WORCESTER, the veteran pollster who chairs Ipsos Mori, worked for
James Callaghan in the run-up to the 1975 referendum on EU membership.

Callaghan was Harold Wilson's foreign secretary at the time.

In January 1975 the electorate was finely balanced on the European question,
with polls showing that 55% favoured membership of what was then called the
Common Market. By June that had jumped to 67%, which reflected the final result.

"When we asked people afterwards what it was that had swayed them, the views of
business were a big part of it," said Worcester, whose firm conducted the City
UK's poll.

A lot has changed since 1975. Public respect for business at large has been
substantially eroded by the financial crisis, corporate tax avoidance and the
general trends of globalisation.

While the global banks and multinationals are broadly supportive of maintaining
the status quo with Europe, dozens of Britain's most successful entrepreneurs
are backing calls for reform.

Open Europe's supporters include Lord Wolfson, the chief executive of Next, and
Luke Johnson, the leisure entrepreneur.

Business for Britain, one of a handful of campaign groups that has sprung up
since the prospect of an EU referendum was raised by the prime minister, has
attracted backing from the likes of John Caudwell, the founder of Phones 4U, and
Sir Rocco Forte.

The Eurosceptic lobby argues that while roughly half of Britain's international
trade is with the EU, it is still only half.

Our exports to emerging markets remain small, but are growing quickly.

Big business argues that the EU remains the single largest economy in the world,
more substantial than America and Japan combined.

In addition, Britain's trade with countries outside the EU is all conducted
under the auspices of trading agreements negotiated centrally by Brussels.

If Britain was on its own, there would be no legal basis upon which companies
here could trade with many countries.

Some countries would charge crippling levies.

However, a report last week by Jonathan Portes of the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research disputed this. He argued that Britain's membership
of the World Trade Organisation made the prospect of this disaster scenario
becoming reality a relatively low risk.

Yet Portes also argued that the threat to the City posed by an exit from the EU
was of "first order significance" to the British economy.

"The EU debate has moved on from 'in' or 'out'," said John Mills, founder of the
mail order company JML Direct, who has made sizeable donations to the Labour
party.

"It is now up to business leaders to define what sort of EU they want to see
emerge from the prime minister's renegotiation."

Clegg's red herring

Nick Clegg has claimed that leaving the EU would "jeopardise up to 3m jobs in
this country", but the deputy prime minister's warning has been rubbished by a
top economist.

Any such suggestions are "totally implausible, and certainly not based on
evidence", said Jonathan Portes, who heads the National Institute of Economic
and Social Research.

Portes, who has been a vocal critic of government spending cuts and was a senior
adviser to the last Labour government, said there was no concrete evidence of
any connection between EU membership and employment.

In a paper published last week, he also attacked Eurosceptics who claim that
Britain would benefit from leaving the EU because we import more from the other
27 member nations than we export to them.

"This shows a complete misunderstanding of the basic principle of comparative
advantage, and why trade is good for prosperity," Portes wrote.

"Buying things that foreigners can produce more cheaply and efficiently than we
can raises our welfare rather than lowering it, by allowing us to concentrate on
doing things we can do (relatively) well.

"We benefit from buying Italian olive oil just as Italians benefit from buying
Scotch whisky. If the impact of exit [from the EU] were to reduce imports, that
would make us poorer, not richer."

The Sunday Times is hosting a debate on the relationship between British
business and the EU onNovember 21. Tickets are £10 for Times+ members, and
£12.50 for non-members. To buy, go to: www.seetickets.com/ thesundaytimes or
call 0871 620 4027.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: European union: Nick Clegg with Spanish wife Miriam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

CBI pledges fight to stay in Europe;
Exit from EU would hit trade and harm London's status as financial centre,
business lobby warns

BYLINE: Kathryn Cooper

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 376 words


BIG BUSINESS will weigh into the debate on Europe tomorrow, warning that
quitting the single market would "seriously threaten" London's position as the
world's financial centre.

Business leaders will give their overwhelming backing to continued membership of
the EU at the CBI's annual conference in London.

Eight out of ten CBI members, including 77% of smaller firms, would vote for
Britain to remain in the 28-nation union if a referendum were held tomorrow.

David Cameron has pledged to put EU membership to a public vote in 2017,
although there have been backbench calls for a referendum before the 2015
election.

John Cridland, director-general of the CBI, will tell delegates that the single
market has brought big benefits. "London is ... the place where global business
happens. Leaving the EU would seriously threaten our position as the world's No
1 financial centre," he will say.

Financial services account for about 8% of Britain's economy and Europe is the
largest single destination for exports from the sector, the CBI will say in a
wide-ranging report.

European banks could depart if Britain left the EU, putting at risk £1.4
trillion of assets held here.

The "in" camp is building a head of steam. The City also backed EU membership
last week, with 84% of financial services executives in favour of staying put,
according to a poll by the City UK, a lobby group.

The support is not unqualified.

The CBI wants reform to lift the burden of EU regulation on its members,
especially in employment law. The CBI has raised its growth forecasts as the
recovery has gathered pace. It now expects GDP to grow 1.4% this year and 2.4%
in 2014, up from 1.2% and 2.3% in its August forecast. However, quarterly growth
is expected to ease to 0.5% in the final three months of the year, against 0.8%
in the third quarter.

The strength of the recovery is expected to force the Bank of England to revise
its unemployment forecasts in its November inflation report.

"The headline grabber is likely to be that the Bank shifts forward the timing of
the unemployment rate hitting 7% by over a year and perhaps as much as 18 months
- and that isn't as hard to achieve as it might sound at first," said Alan
Clarke, economist at Scotiabank.

Carney's promised land, pages 6-7

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Merkel backs UK amid EU exit fears

BYLINE: Pancevski Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 625 words


GERMANY'S new coalition is set to back the British prime minister David
Cameron's efforts to redefine the UK's relationship with the European Union amid
growing concern in Berlin about the impact on Europe of a possible UK exit after
a future referendum.

Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, whose Christian Democratic Union agreed
the foundation of a "grand coalition" with the Social Democrats last week, is
set to focus in her third term on drafting far-reaching reforms of the EU and
the working of the euro.

Her intention is to avert future crises and justify to her electorate the
impending transfers of German funds to ailing European countries.

The planned changes, including stricter control by Brussels of national spending
and establishing a tighter system of governance of the common currency area,
could require amendments to European treaties - an arduous negotiating process
in which Britain's support could prove invaluable for Germany.

In exchange, Cameron is set to get German backing for UK plans to opt back in to
selected justice and home affairs measures after his government decided this
year to withdraw from a raft of EU legislation.

In some cases being allowed to do so would require a vote in the European
Council, the forum of EU leaders, where Germany's influence is decisive.
Britain's support for a German-led reform could be even more significant in the
light of opposition from some eurozone members, such as France, which are
reluctant to give up more power to Brussels, or who fear the difficulty of
attaining popular approval for a treaty change, which in some countries requires
a referendum. The changes, as envisaged by Germany, would result in more
integration among eurozone countries while the "outs" - Brussels-speak for
countries that are not in the euro - would be offered a looser relationship with
the EU.

Merkel is also understood to be prepared to be seen as making concessions to the
UK in order to help Cameron win a referendum - if he gets reelected and keeps
the promise to call a plebiscite on Britain staying in the EU.

Merkel, as well as other European leaders, fears a British exit from Europe
would change the voting balance in the EU and weaken the continent's northern
free-trading nations to the advantage of countries more inclined towards
protectionism - for example, France - or states more dependent on financial
transfers. Her concerns are shared by northern neighbours that, like Germany,
are big net contributors to EU finances.

Senior members of the Social Democrats, Merkel's coalition partner, have spoken
against treaty changes related to "referendums in individual states," but it is
expected that, once established, the government would find a common position
influenced by the chancellor's positive attitude towards Britain.

The workings of the alliance between London and Berlin are already visible in
Brussels: earlier this month Germany secured Britain's backing to scrap proposed
EU green rules for luxury cars that would have damaged its motor industry. The
support was provided despite an apparent lack of any direct British interest at
stake.

Last Friday Merkel accompanied Cameron to an event organised by the British
government on the margins of the EU summit where leading UK businessmen were
making efforts to cut red tape in Brussels.

In the meantime the Franco-German relationship has reached the lowest point in
its recent history because of differences between Merkel and François Hollande,
France's Socialist president.

Cameron and his family enjoyed a rare invitation by Merkel earlier this year to
Schloss Meseberg, the German government's official state guesthouse. Such a
courtesy has yet to be extended to Hollande, who has openly criticised her
austerity policies.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Merkel throws weight behind Britain amid EU exit fears

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 510 words


GERMANY'S new coalition is set to back David Cameron's efforts to redefine
Britain's relationship with the European Union amid growing concern in Berlin
about the impact on Europe of a possible UK exit after a future referendum.

Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, whose Christian Democratic Union agreed
the foundation of a "grand coalition" with the Social Democrats last week, is
set to focus in her third term on drafting farreaching reforms of the EU and the
working of the euro.

Her intention is to avert future crises and justify to her electorate the
impending transfers of German taxpayer funds to ailing European countries.

The planned changes, including stricter control by Brussels of national spending
and establishing a tighter system of governance of the common currency area,
could require amendments to European treaties - an arduous negotiating process
in which Britain's support could prove invaluable for Germany.

In exchange Cameron is set to get German backing for UK plans to opt back in to
selected justice and home affairs measures after his government decided earlier
this year to withdraw from a whole raft of EU legislation.

In some cases being allowed to do so would require a vote in the European
Council, the forum of EU leaders, where Germany's influence is decisive. The
changes, as envisaged by Germany, would result in more integration among
eurozone countries while the "outs" - Brussels-speak for countries that are not
in the euro - would be offered a looser relationship with the EU.

Merkel fears a British exit from Europe would change the voting balance in the
EU and weaken the continent's northern free-trading nations to the advantage of
countries more inclined towards protectionism - for example, France - or states
more dependent on financial transfers. Her concerns are shared by several
northern neighbours that, like Germany, are big net contributors to EU finances.

The workings of the alliance between London and Berlin are already visible in
Brussels: earlier this month Germany secured Britain's backing to scrap proposed
EU green rules for luxury cars that would have damaged its motor industry. The
support was provided despite an apparent lack of any direct British interest at
stake.

Last Friday Merkel accompanied Cameron to an event organised by the British
government on the margins of the EU summit where leading UK businessmen were
making efforts to cut red tape in Brussels.

In the meantime the Franco-German relationship has reached the lowest point in
its recent history because of differences between Merkel and François Hollande,
France's Socialist president.

Cameron and his family enjoyed a rare invitation by Merkel earlier this year to
Schloss Meseberg, the German government's official state guesthouse. Such a
courtesy has yet to be extended to Hollande, who has openly criticised her
austerity policies.

Your view

The Sunday Times is hosting a debate on the relationship between British
business and the EU on November 21.

For tickets go to www.seetickets.com/thesundaytimes or call 0871 620 4027.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PS: A big issue for [...]

BYLINE: DAVID SMITH

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 172 words


PS: A big issue for business and the British economy is Britain's membership of
the EU. If we do have a referendum in 2017, which way will it go? And which side
of the debate should business be on? There are, indeed, few more important
questions.

So let me publicise a high-level debate, entitled Does Britain Need Europe? I
shall be chairing it here at The Sunday Times on the evening of Thursday,
November 21. The impressive panellists are: Jürgen Maier, managing director of
Siemens, UK and Ireland; Maurice Thompson, Citi's head in the UK; Michael
Spencer, chief executive of Icap; Lord Leach, chairman of Open Europe; and
Helena Morrissey, chief executive of Newton Investment Management.

I am not going to attempt to summarise their views but I can tell you that they
differ fundamentally and it promises to be very lively. Eat your heart out David
Dimbleby. Tickets are a very modest £10 for Times+ members and £12.50 for
non-members: go to www.seetickets.com/thesundaytimes or call 0871 620 4027.

david.smith@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

City big hitters warn of disaster on EU exit

BYLINE: Kathryn Cooper

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 244 words


LEADING City figures will weigh into the debate on Britain's membership of the
European Union (EU) this week, predicting dire consequences if the UK leaves.
Sir John Gieve, former deputy governor of the Bank of England, will warn that
abandoning the EU would be foolhardy and potentially disastrous for Britain's
financial services industry.

The backing of such a prominent figure for continued membership of the 28-nation
union will intensify the debate ahead of David Cameron's planned referendum in
2017.

Gieve will make his comments in a report launched tomorrow by Regent's
University in London.

Several other high-profile business leaders have contributed to the report,
including Lord Simon, former BP chairman, and Peter Sutherland, chairman of
Goldman Sachs International. The investment bank has warned of a mass exodus
from London if a referendum backed an exit.

Gieve will argue that membership of the EU has brought huge benefits to
Britain's financial services industry. "To abandon this for some untried
alternative would be foolhardy," he will say.

In a riposte to the "out" camp which claims the City could retain its dominance
even on the fringes of the single market, Gieve says such assumptions are
reckless.

Gieve and his fellow authors - David Green, former head of the European division
at the Bank of England, and John Cooke of City UK - also dismiss arguments that
Britain could negotiate a half-way house with the EU, like Norway and
Switzerland.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

POINTS;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 504 words


Kicking off In an interview last week ("Irish players will put club before
country", Sport) Fintan Drury denied that contract negotiations had taken place
with the IRFU in relation to his client, Seán O'Brien. He suggested the IRFU
would wait until O'Brien is "almost out of contract before coming to the
negotiation table". Representatives of the IRFU and Leinster met with Drury on
June 5 and October 1 to discuss O'Brien's contract, and all parties agreed to a
further meeting in late October. The IRFU await a response to, or
acknowledgement of, an email sent to Drury on October 1 confirming his
availability for this third meeting.

Stephen McNamara Director of Communications Irish Rugby Football Union Flight of
fancy Although I congratulate Louth man Fergal Reilly for becoming a successful
animator and for getting the opportunity to help make an Angry Birds movie, I
cannot avoid the feeling Hollywood has gone backwards ("Angry Birds catapult
artist into big time", News, last week). Does anyone else remember a time when
the film was produced, and then a game was released as a form of merchandise,
just a different way of making money? Is Hollywood so desperate for a new idea
for a film that it needs to make an hour-long cartoon about birds flying into
pigs? Can a storyline of good quality ever come from such a basic and random
game? Where are the great story writers who wrote Toy Story and The Lion King?
Why can't they put their heads together and create a totally new idea? Rachel
Malone Limerick Bankrolling terrorism As a solicitor, I'm required by the
government to carry out stringent client money-laundering checks to ensure that
there are no risks of financing terrorism.

Yet the state has co-operated with the EU in transferring funds to Gaza and the
West Bank. As you point out, "Gaza is controlled by Hamas, which is classified
as a terrorist organisation by the EU", whose Council of Auditors watchdog noted
"significant shortcomings" in the way funds were managed ("£1.95bn EU aid lost
in Palestine", World News, last week).

Barry Borman Edgware, London Made-up name Two very different female role models,
Malala Yousafzai and Miley Cyrus, have been in the news, albeit for very
different reasons ("My year with Malala", and "Good golly Miss Miley!",
Magazine, last week). I read Miley's real name is Destiny Hope as her father,
Billy Ray Cyrus, "thought it was her destiny to bring hope to the world". You
couldn't make it up.

Mark Sidaway Long Buckby Northamptonshire Ballot blunder I think John Burke's
comment that he would have voted No in any referendum, even if the government
had proposed to grant every citizen (EURO)1m, is probably the silliest I've read
since I started reading newspapers about 40 years ago ("Protest vote", Letters,
last week).

Tony Hannon Tralee Letters should arrive by midday Thursday and include the full
address and a daytime and an evening telephone number. Please quote date,
section and page number. We may edit letters, which must be exclusive to The
Sunday Times

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

City big hitters warn of disaster on EU exit

BYLINE: Kathryn Cooper

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 239 words


LEADING City figures will weigh into the debate on EU membership this week,
predicting dire consequences if Britain leaves.

Sir John Gieve, former deputy governor of the Bank of England, will warn that
abandoning the EU would be foolhardy and potentially disastrous for Britain's
financial services industry.

The backing of such a prominent figure for continued membership of the 28-nation
union will intensify the debate ahead of David Cameron's planned referendum in
2017. Gieve is due to make his comments in a report launched tomorrow by
Regent's University London.

Several other high-profile business leaders have contributed to the report,
including Lord Simon, former BP chairman, and Peter Sutherland, chairman of
Goldman Sachs International.

The investment bank has warned of a mass exodus from London if a referendum
backed an exit.

Gieve will argue that membership of the EU has brought huge benefits to
Britain's financial services industry. "To abandon this for some untried
alternative would be foolhardy," he will say.

In a riposte to the "out" camp which claims the City could retain its dominance
even on the fringes of the single market, Gieve says such assumptions are
reckless.

Gieve and his fellow authors - David Green, former head of the European division
at the Bank of England, and John Cooke of City UK - also dismiss arguments that
Britain could negotiate a half-way house with the EU, like Norway and
Switzerland.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I'M LIKE MY DAD... A THORN IN THE SIDE;
RELATIVE VALUES The Eurosceptic Tory MP Bill Cash, 73, and his daughter,
Laetitia, 40, a barrister and an environmentalist, on the lessons to be learnt
from being unpopular

BYLINE: BEVERLEY D'SILVA

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1177 words


BILL: I was 25 when I married Biddy; we were very happy and in love. I was
working as a lawyer in London and we were living in Stockwell. We then found a
beautiful country house in a hamlet in Shropshire. It was Elizabethan, quite
derelict, lying there like Sleeping Beauty. We bought it and began restoring it,
and it remains our family home to this day.

By that point, we had already had two sons, William and Sam, and Laetitia came
along in 1973. Being born in Shropshire has meant a lot to her. That rural
environment formed her character. She used to go catching butterflies and wading
through streams. She found a hedgehog and kept it as a pet. She has always loved
nature.

When she was seven, she saw a programme about seals being clubbed to death and
got so upset about it, she joined Greenpeace. Within no time, she was raising
money to save seals. In one fundraiser, she went off into Bridgnorth, the local
town, pushing a pram with an iron bed tied to it that was covered in slogans.
Looking back, some members of our family have been involved in campaigns since
the 1840s. One family member, the politician John Bright, was instrumental in
giving the vote to the working class. He was also a strong critic of the
government's foreign policy.

I came into politics myself in 1984, when I was lucky to get a seat in Stafford.
I never believed the single European currency would work and started the
Maastricht referendum campaign. Jimmy Goldsmith took up the cause with me, and
our patron was Margaret Thatcher. I wrote in 1990 that [the EU] would lead to
unemployment, riots and the rise of the far right. I think it's turned out to be
exactly as we thought.

Laetitia's passion for the environment continued into her teens, and, although
she went on to do a degree in fashion journalism, she then switched to law when
she realised it would be far more useful for campaigning. She qualified as a
barrister and her next step was to get elected as a Tory district councillor in
Bridgnorth.

I was very pleased about this move into local politics, and again when she
decided to stand for a seat at the 2005 general election. I felt she'd be very
successful, given how good she was at canvassing. And, though it may not be my
place to say it, she is very beautiful - which does help in politics.

In the end, Laetitia didn't win the seat. It turned out that she wasn't really
100% comfortable with the politics. She found campaigning for the environment
more tangible and socially responsible. She also decided that her two children,
Tess and Arizona, had to come first.

I wasn't disappointed. The most important thing for me is that she, like my
sons, is doing what she wants to do in life. Since then she's worked on various
projects and with some remarkable people in conservation and the environment.
This is what she's really passionate about. And when it comes to the future of
the planet, you have to be.

I'm very close to Laetitia and her children, but I've never had a close
relationship with any of her boyfriends. Or her former husband. They were her
choices, and I never wanted to impose my views on her. I also don't worry about
her being a single mother now: there may come a time when it will be important
for her to find somebody else.

It was a difficult time for us both four years ago [during the expenses scandal]
because it came with a lot of press attention. It was something one simply had
to deal with, and Laetitia and I pulled together. The whole matter was resolved.

Lord Justice Kennedy looked at the papers, and it's all there on record. It was
nothing but straight exoneration.

If I do say something Laetitia doesn't agree with, she'll say so straight away.
Then we'll have a discussion. She'll pin me down to an argument, saying: "Are
you sure that's the right thing to say and do, Daddy?" I respect her for that. I
can't bear people who agree with you all the time. I deeply respect people who
are against my way of thinking, like Chris Bryant or Keith Vaz, both of whom are
on the other side.

So I love the fact that Laetitia questions things and wants to change things
that she feels passionate about. She was doing it when she was seven and she's
still doing it now. That's my girl.

But it was while I was there that I realised I wanted to earn my place in the
world and I moved to New York to work for the Council on Foreign Relations, an
independent think tank. While I was in America, I also had a relationship with a
lawyer called Alex Goulandris and became pregnant with Tess-Alexandra, my first
daughter.

When Tess was one, I went to Oxford to study law. I wanted to build a
specialisation in energy and environmental law. I also stood as a Conservative
candidate in the general election. I didn't win the seat, but it was a good
experience. In the same year I married John Gunn, the father of my second child,
Arizona. We divorced four years ago.

At every stage of my life, Dad has been constant, both personally and publicly.
He is a guardian of British sovereignty, and as a constitutional lawyer he could
see how that sovereignty could be undermined by the European Union. He became
deeply unpopular for starting the Maastricht rebellion, but he didn't let that
stop him.

He has enormous conviction. His priorities are country, constituency, party, in
that order. I'd also include the planet. For both of us, though, family comes
before everything ¦ ¦ Laetitia Cash's online platform, Emerald Tablet, will
launch on November 30 INTERVIEWS BY BEVERLEY D'SILVA PHOTOGRAPH: MANUEL VAZQUEZ
LAETITIA: I am a strong believer in being taken on your own merits, and not on
who your father is or who you marry. I grew up in a beautiful manor in
Shropshire called Upton Cressett Hall, and it was a labour of love for my
parents for 40 years. I spent all my time outdoors, which I'm sure sowed the
seeds for the environmental conscience I have today.

There's no doubt that I've also inherited my father's campaigning spirit. I
remember watching him on TV when he first got elected to the Commons. He was
always outspoken, and his early political career was dominated by Northern
Ireland. I would always check under our car, to make sure nothing was there.

I can also remember the first time Dad introduced me to Mrs Thatcher. She was
very warm, very friendly, and gave me and my brothers biscuits and Coca-Cola.
She and Denis came and stayed with us in Shropshire many times. She was a role
model for Dad; I found her inspiring, too. She was in this male-dominated world,
and she had the courage of her convictions.

My family are Catholic, from Quaker roots, and I went to Catholic boarding
schools from the age of 11 to 18. After my A-levels, I studied at the British
Institute in Florence. Then I had a bad accident. I was walking in a London
street when a car drove onto the pavement and ran into me.

I was in hospital for quite a bit and had to have my knee replaced.

'I felt my daughter would be successful when it came to standing in the general
election. It may not be my place to say it, but she's very beautiful, which does
help in politics'

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOGRAPH: MANUEL VAZQUEZ
NATURE TRAIL Left: Bill and Laetitia at the family home, Upton Cressett Hall, in
Shropshire. 'I spent all my time [growing up] outdoors,' says Laetitia, which
'sowed the seeds for the environmental conscience I have today.' Inset: Laetitia
as a six-yearold with her parents, during a private audience with Pope John Paul
II, 1979

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Sparing cuts will just delay the hangover

BYLINE: CONSTANTIN GURDGIEV

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1176 words


Recent events have led to a significant reframing of Budget 2014, with the
government actively signalling a more accommodative stance on next year's cuts.
Alas, the good news ends there. Any easing of austerity in 2014 is unlikely to
produce a material improvement in household budgets.

The government is placing a huge bet on robust growth returning in 2014. If this
fails to materialise, less austerity today will simply spell more pain in 2015.
Like an alcoholic unable to stop bingeing at closing time, we are happy to
ignore tomorrow's hangover.

A combination of the latest IMF report on the economy and the outcome of the
Seanad abolition referendum settled the debate on the scale of adjustment to be
taken on Tuesday. The IMF repeated its insistence on a (EURO)5.1bn-combined
adjustment for 2014-15. Yet, it avoided specifying the spread between the two
years. This has given the government confidence to argue in favour of partially
delaying the 2014 adjustment to our EU overseers.

As a result, the 2014 adjustment will be (EURO)600m lower than the (EURO)3.1bn
originally agreed with the troika. The savings will amount to just 0.37% of our
GDP - a small boost for the Irish economy, but a massive splash in PR terms for
a poleaxed coalition government.

Yet with some cuts being delayed until 2015, debt sustainability and deficit
targets now hinge on the government's forecasts for growth over the next 12
months. The risks to these forecasts are hardly negligible.

Last week, the IMF lowered Irish GDP growth forecasts for every year from 2013
until 2018. Compared with the forecasts released in June this year, October
forecasts for inflation are also down. This implies that nominal growth - the
source of budget deficits and debt dynamics - is expected to be even slower.

Back in June, the IMF expected the Irish economy to be worth (EURO)205.8bn by
2018; now the fund is projecting that it will hit (EURO)201.7bn. Cumulative
forecast nominal GDP for 2013-18 is (EURO)15.6bn lower in the October report
than it was in June. Even before Michael Noonan's reductions for Budget 2014,
the IMF was projecting a worsening of Irish deficits for 2014-18.

The Department of Finance forecasts that underpin Budget 2014 calculations are
more optimistic on nominal growth, anticipate higher inflation and expect more
domestic consumption and investment than the IMF. If the department is wrong, we
will all pay in 2015 for the delays in cuts planned for next year. Flying on the
hope of rosy growth expectations is a risky proposition for the exchequer,
especially before drawing down the final tranche of the troika funding.

And all for the sake of just 0.37% of GDP. Given the precarious position of the
government in opinion polls, it is a safe bet that the coalition will be putting
the money to "work" as an investment stimulus and a cushion against cuts to
social welfare and health. New building programmes in more sensitive
constituencies can generate serious political capital. Yet allocating large sums
to new investment is a lengthy process before construction jobs materialise.

The growth impact of these measures in 2014 is unlikely to be significant.

Doing little to structurally alter the way we spend on social supports and
healthcare will mean that budgetary changes to spending in 2014 are likely to be
identical to those of the past. In health, expect more cost-shifting to private
insurance, more sabre-rattling over cost overruns and more imaginary gains in
productivity. Social welfare "cost-containment" measures will rely on "demand
attrition" - the declines in demand as a result of unemployment benefits
expiring and emigration. Both will have zero impact on growth in 2014.

Meanwhile, revenue demands will keep squeezing the economy. Fine Gael promises
that the budget will contain no new taxes. Alas, it has a narrow and misleading
definition of the terms "new" and "taxes". In 2014, we will be facing a full
annual local property tax, which is expected to take an additional (EURO)250
from the average household income. The budget is also likely to raise charges on
families to fund education and healthcare. The government is saying these are
not new taxes. Those who pay them will disagree.

Last year, PRSI changes and reduction in child benefits were not identified as
"new taxes" either. Yet these non-taxes cost an average working family with two
children (EURO)494 a year - an involuntary reduction in family income.

According to research from Grant Thornton, families on (EURO)80,000 with two
earners and two children have seen a rise in their tax bills of 54% since 2008.
Their disposable annual income is down a massive (EURO)6,132. Only a small
fraction of these were officially recognised as new tax measures. Meanwhile, the
same families have also seen the costs of basic services provided by state
agencies and enterprises, or controlled by state regulators and heavily taxed,
rise dramatically during the crisis.

On average, Irish consumer prices fell 1.6% between August 2008 and August 2013.
Yet health insurance costs more than doubled over the same period, education
costs inflated by 29%, bus fares have gone up more than 46% and motor tax went
up 27%. Increases in core public service costs have taken nearly (EURO)3,500
annually out of the pockets of an average Irish family. These are on top of the
Grant Thornton taxcost estimates cited already.

For an average family with an expected working life of 25 years, these austerity
costs are the equivalent of foregoing about (EURO)111,000 in future pensions
savings. That is the extent of the opportunity cost of austerity. This excludes
costs of any further measures from December 31.

And we are far from completing the full set of fiscal adjustments needed to
restore our public finances to health. The mediumterm government fiscal
consolidation forecasts, confirmed by the IMF last week, envision total fiscal
consolidation for 2014-15 to be (EURO)5.1bn. Of this, new revenue measures in
2014-15 account for (EURO)1.5bn and carry forward measures for (EURO)300m.
Current spending cuts are set at (EURO)3.2bn. These adjustments translate into
an additional fiscal burden of (EURO)3,300-(EURO)3,500 a year for an ordinary
family.

The hope is that an economic recovery will mop up the blood spilled by the
fiscal crisis. Yet just last week the IMF cut its global-growth forecasts for
2013 and 2014. Not great news for an open economy and its export-led recovery.
Meanwhile, the government has run out of road on tax hikes and revenue-raising
measures.

All the low-hanging fruit - marginal tax hikes and revenue-extraction schemes -
have been picked. There are two possible options left. Option one: cut social
welfare and health. Option two: delay adjustments and hope that, by the time
Budget 2015 comes around, growth will have picked up, unemployment assistance
costs will have fallen and Brussels will be happy enough revelling in the euro
recovery to let things slip a bit on targets in www.Dublin.No prizes for
guessing which option the coalition will pursue next Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Britain's EU stance could be 'frightening' for Ireland

BYLINE: Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words


PETER SUTHERLAND, a former attorney-general and EU commissioner, has told Fine
Gael that Ireland is facing a period of deep uncertainty in the run-up to 2017,
when British voters will be offered an "in or out" choice on EU membership.

Sutherland, the chairman of Goldman Sachs International, said the challenge for
Ireland was to balance its interests between keeping Britain, our largest
trading partner, within the EU but not allowing it concessions that would weaken
European integration which, he said, is "key to the future of the country".

Sutherland delivered his warning at a Fine Gael fundraising breakfast attended
by the taoiseach Enda Kenny and Richard Bruton, the enterprise minister, in
Dublin's Shelbourne hotel last week. Those present said Sutherland emphasised
that Britain's reassessment of its relationship with the EU posed risks.

Paul Coghlan, a Fine Gael senator, said: "He painted a picture of Britain's
difficulties vis-à-vis Europe, which from our point of view is extremely
frightening.

The consequences of what [Britain] might do in a referendum or plebiscite -
real, imagined or political - are dire for us."

Sutherland said Ireland had to balance its interest in keeping Britain in the EU
against the preservation of integration.

He said it was not clear what would follow "in terms of border controls if they
were to leave", but while Ireland's position had always been positive to
European integration, Britain's "most definitely wasn't".

The former commissioner added that a British exit from the EU could have
positive effects in the form of more foreign direct investment into Ireland.
There would also be negative effects in that key European pillars such as the
common agricultural policy or some of the fundamental principles of the EU, such
as closer European integration, could be undermined by concessions to keep
Britain in the union.

About 350 guests paid (EURO)50 a head to attend the breakfast event run by the
Fine Gael organisation in Dublin Bay South.

One Fine Gael supporter present said: "Sutherland said our best interest was in
keeping Britain in but not at any price ... we could not sacrifice the basic
idea of European integration, which he said was key to the future of the
country.

"He said it was a huge issue which nobody was talking about. David Cameron [the
British prime minister] said in January they were going to renegotiate
[membership with the EU] but failed to tell us what they were going to
renegotiate.

It could be anything.

"We have a guarantee that if he wins the election, Cameron will have a
referendum but we have not had a guarantee from [Labour leader] Ed Miliband that
he will not. So irrespective of who wins the next election, there is a real risk
there will be a referendum."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sutherland: vote warning

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Graduates set to get Seanad vote

BYLINE: Sarah McInerney; Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 639 words


ENDA KENNY has asked for legislation to be prepared to expand the electorate of
the Seanad to all third-level graduates.

In a speech to a Fine Gael conference last night, Kenny said the move would be a
"small start" towards reforming the upper house, following voters' rejection of
its abolition last weekend.

Senior government sources have confirmed the plan now is to "modernise" the
Seanad with as many reforms as the Irish constitution will allow. Ministers
believe there are constitutional problems with reform proposals put forward by
some independent senators prior to the referendum, such as expanding the
electorate to include emigrants or Irish citizens in Northern Ireland. There
will not be another referendum to change the constitution to allow for these
reforms in the lifetime of this government, according to a number of senior
sources.

Last night Kenny promised to ensure the Seanad will be as effective as possible.
"I intend to discuss this with other leaders in the coming weeks and, as a small
start, I have asked that legislation be prepared to give effect to the 1979
decision of the Irish people to extend the Seanad electorate to all graduates,"
he said.

The 1979 referendum outcome was never legislated for. Under the current system,
graduates of the National University of Ireland and of Trinity College Dublin
elect three senators each. The 1979 amendment to the constitution allows for
legislation to extend the franchise for these six Seanad seats to "any other
institutions of higher education in the state".

Paschal Donohoe, the minister for European affairs, said he would hold
discussions with party leaders in the Seanad about changing standing orders to
allow the upper house a role in the scrutiny of EU legislation.

"Now that a decision has been made to keep the Seanad, I think a positive and
obvious role for it would be around the issue of EU affairs," he said.

"I would want to see as much reform implemented as is allowed under the
constitution.

To my mind, it would require a referendum to change the suffrage of the Seanad
to expand it to emigrants, but other changes can be made."

While the question of Seanad reform will not be put to the people, the
government is still planning a number of other referendums before the next
general election. These may include a proposal to reduce the voting age;
changing the reference to the role of women in the home; marriage equality; and
the creation of family law courts. One senior Fine Gael source admitted there is
no appetite for more referendums. "If we had our way, that would be the end of
it until the next election, but I think there will have to be more, because of
the constitutional convention," he said. "No one in Fine Gael wants to have to
go out and support another referendum. If there are any more, it will have to be
up to each person to decide how they stand on the issues. I think the party
won't take any official stance, especially on an issue like marriage equality."

Jerry Buttimer, chairman of the Oireachtas health committee, said he believed
there should be a series of "pre-legislative hearings" in the Oireachtas on
marriage equality before a referendum is held. "I would hope we could have it in
the lifetime of this government," he said.

Buttimer said the government also needs to examine why the turnout for last
weekend's referendums was below 40%. "There is a concern people have become
tired of referendums ... Many don't engage because they have other issues in
their lives, such as their financial situation to deal with," he said.

"We need to ask, is there a case to hold referendums on a Sunday, to try a
different day? Perhaps we might look at running a Referendum Day on the issues
that come out of the convention on the constitution. If you build it like a
Super Tuesday, you can attract people more to the process."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Dublin's fears over Britain's stance on EU

BYLINE: Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 484 words


PETER SUTHERLAND, a former attorney-general and EU commissioner, has told Fine
Gael that Ireland is facing a period of deep uncertainty in the run-up to 2017,
when British voters will be offered an "in or out" choice on EU membership.

Sutherland, the chairman of Goldman Sachs International, said the challenge for
the republic was to balance its interests between keeping Britain, its largest
trading partner, within the EU but not allowing it concessions that would weaken
European integration which, he said, is "key to the future of the country".

Sutherland delivered his warning at a Fine Gael fundraising breakfast attended
by the taoiseach Enda Kenny and Richard Bruton, the enterprise minister, in
Dublin's Shelbourne hotel last week. Those present said Sutherland emphasised
that Britain's reassessment of its relationship with the EU posed risks.

Paul Coghlan, a Fine Gael senator, said: "He painted a picture of Britain's
difficulties vis-à-vis Europe, which from our point of view is extremely
frightening.

"The consequences of what [Britain] might do in a referendum or plebiscite -
real, imagined or political - are dire for us."

Sutherland said Ireland had to balance its interest in keeping Britain in the EU
against the preservation of integration.

He said it was not clear what would follow "in terms of border controls if they
were to leave", but while Ireland's position had always been positive to
European integration, Britain's "most definitely wasn't".

The former commissioner added that a British exit from the EU could have
positive effects in the form of more foreign direct investment into Ireland.
There would also be negative effects in that key European pillars such as the
common agricultural policy or some of the fundamental principles of the EU, such
as closer European integration, could be undermined by concessions to keep
Britain in the union.

About 350 guests paid (EURO)50 (£42) a head to attend the breakfast event run by
the Fine Gael organisation in Dublin Bay South.

One Fine Gael supporter present said: "Sutherland said our best interest was in
keeping Britain in but not at any price ... we could not sacrifice the basic
idea of European integration, which he said was key to the future of the
country.

"He said it was a huge issue which nobody was talking about. [British prime
minister] David Cameron said in January they were going to renegotiate
[membership with the EU] but failed to tell us what they were going to
renegotiate.

It could be anything.

"We have a guarantee that if he wins the election, Cameron will have a
referendum but we have not had a guarantee from [Labour leader] Ed Miliband that
he will not. So irrespective of who wins the next election, there is a real risk
there will be a referendum."

In the Seanad last week, Coghlan said Sutherland should be invited to address
the upper house on the risks from British renegotiation of its EU membership.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sutherland: vote warning

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             October 6, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Clegg: PM 'playing with fire' on EU

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott and Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 488 words


NICK CLEGG will this week accuse David Cameron of "playing with fire" and of
damaging Britain's economic recovery by seeking to appease Eurosceptics within
the Conservative party.

In a withering attack on the Tories' Europe policy, the deputy prime minister
will describe Cameron's promise to hold a referendum on British membership of
the European Union as a "short-sighted political calculation that could
jeopardise the long-term national interest".

Warning that "flirting" with an exit from the EU could "throw our recovery
away", the Liberal Democrat leader, who is a former Brussels official, will say:
"You cannot overstate the damage it would do to British livelihoods and
prosperity. It is playing with fire and if we go down this track it is Britain
that will get burnt."

His comments, to be made on Tuesday, come as Tory Eurosceptics prepare to step
up their demands for a referendum before the next election.

Clegg will accuse the prime minister of choosing 2017 as the date of a
referendum in an unsuccessful effort to buy off rebellious backbenchers.

"The promise of unilateral repatriation was made at a time when the Conservative
party needed to find a way to plaster over their internal divisions on Europe,"
he will say.

The speech will mark the start of a new parliamentary session in which battles
over Europe will return to the fore.

On November 8 MPs will debate a private member's bill supported by Cameron that
would legislate to promise an in-out referendum on Britain's EU membership by
the end of 2017. The bill, tabled by James Wharton, a Conservative MP, has been
used by the Tory high command to reconcile its angry Eurosceptic backbenchers.

Although the prime minister has promised to renegotiate the terms of Britain's
membership of the EU in an effort to increase the chances of a yes vote, many of
his backbench MPs think the commitment to a vote in 2017 is too loose.

A cross-party group of MPs led by Adam Afriyie, the Tory member for Windsor, and
Keith Vaz, Labour chairman of the Commons home affairs select committee, will
tomorrow table an amendment to Wharton's bill calling for an in-out referendum
to be held on October 23 next year - well before the general election.

There are understood to be about 80 signatories to the amendment including Tom
Watson, Labour's former election co-ordinator.

Supporters of Afriyie, who has declared an ambition to become leader of his
party, believe the announcement of a referendum next October will speed up talks
on renegotiating Britain's EU membership and drain support from UKIP.

The amendment has also drawn support from some Europhile MPs who believe it
could end four years of uncertainty.

"If we wait until after the general election to elect a government that will
then start a renegotiation, it will dominate the first two years of the next
government," Vaz said.

"It is far better to get a mandate and a negotiating position before the general
election."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             October 6, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Tory MPs defy PM to hasten EU vote

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Marie Woolf; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 476 words


TORY backbenchers are to defy David Cameron by trying to bring forward the
referendum on whether to leave the EU.

Next month, the Commons will begin debating a bill allowing for the referendum
to be held in 2017. But Adam Afriyie, the Tory MP for Windsor, backed by senior
Labour backbenchers, plans to table an amendment tomorrow that would bring the
vote forward to October next year.

Up to 80 MPs are expected to sign the amendment, including pro-EU MPs who want
the vote held before the general election.

Downing Street has said it will not allow the amendment to pass "under any
circumstances".

"The PM will not let this stand," a spokesman said. Afriyie, who has declared an
ambition to lead the Conservative party, says delaying the in/out referendum
until 2017 will drive Tory supporters to vote UKIP.

"If they do, there is a distinct danger that Labour will gain a majority and we
will never see a referendum at all," he wrote in the Mail on Sunday.

Afriyie said: "Many people think delaying the vote is just a tactic to allow all
the political leaders to kick the can even further down the road."

Although the prime minister has promised to renegotiate the terms of Britain's
membership of the EU in an effort to increase the chances of a yes vote, many of
his backbench MPs think the commitment to a vote in 2017 is too loose.

Labour MP Keith Vaz, who served as minister for Europe under Tony Blair, is
backing the amendment. "If we wait until after the general election to elect a
government that will then start a renegotiation, it will dominate the first two
years of the next government," he said.

"It is far better to get a mandate and a negotiating position before the general
election. I am pro-European, I think we would win a referendum, but I think that
at the end of the day the British people must decide."

The deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, will weigh into the debate this week,
accusing Cameron of "playing with fire" and of damaging Britain's economic
recovery by seeking to appease Eurosceptics within the Conservative party.

In a speech on Tuesday Clegg will describe Cameron's promise to hold a
referendum as a "short-sighted political calculation that could jeopardise the
long-term national interest".

Warning that "flirting" with an exit from the EU could "throw our recovery
away", the Liberal Democrat leader, who is a former Brussels commissioner, will
say: "You cannot overstate the damage it would do to British livelihoods and
prosperity. It is playing with fire and if we go down this track it is Britain
that will get burnt."

Clegg will accuse the prime minister of choosing a referendum in 2017 as an
unsuccessful effort to buy off rebellious backbenchers. But he will say the ploy
has backfired and they have in fact been "stoked up". Many right wing Tories now
see Cameron's policy as a "smokescreen for exit" from Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tories rush out cheap home loans;
Labour leaps to 11-point lead ; Cameron puts EU in last chance saloon

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1338 words


DAVID CAMERON is to rush forward the government's controversial mortgage
guarantee scheme to help more people to buy their own homes.

In a dramatic bid to counter Labour's populist new energy price policy, the
prime minister will bring in the second part of his Help to Buy scheme within a
fortnight - underwriting up to £130bn of newhome loans.

The first scheme to help people with a small deposit buy new-build homes was
launched earlier this year.

"I am impatient to help young people get on the housing ladder," Cameron told
The Sun on Sunday.

"What concerns me is that you can't buy a house or a flat even if you are doing
OK, you have got decent job prospects and good earnings," he added. "I am not
prepared to be a prime minister of a country with caps on aspiration."

The announcement will surprise many in the property industry, which did not
expect the policy to come into force until the new year.

It comes as the Conservatives start their party conference with a double-digit
deficit to Labour. Ed Miliband's party has surged after his pledge last week to
freeze gas and electricity bills for 20 months if he wins the election in 2015.

A YouGov poll for today's Sunday Times puts Labour on 42%, with the Tories
lagging behind on 31% and UKIP third on 13%. Cameron's coalition partners, the
Liberal Democrats, languish on nine points. Cameron will attempt to regain the
initiative by illustrating his determination to help hard-working people get on
the housing ladder. He is expected to declare that he will not "stand by" while
people on average wages cannot buy their own home.

However, questions remain over whether the construction industry is ready and
there are also fears the policy could create a dangerous housing bubble.

Last week, in response to such criticism, the chancellor George Osborne
announced that he was giving the Bank of England powers to review the scheme
annually and advise whether it should continue. The first review will be in
September next year.

The average deposit for a home worth £200,000 is currently £40,000. Under the
new government deal, buyers will need a deposit of just 5%, with the Treasury
underwriting up to 20% of their loan in addition.

The Treasury is offering total guarantees of £12bn. These will be available on
any home priced at less than £600,000.

According to housing charities, the average single young person in England
requires 14 years to save enough for a deposit on their first home.

Cameron is expected to describe the continuing requirement for such high
deposits as "unsustainable", arguing that there is no need to wait until January
to bring in the scheme.

Whitehall sources insist the banks are "right behind" the decision to bring
forward the policy. A national advertising campaign will be launched by the
government and mortgage lenders in the second week of October to alert voters to
the new deal.

Among the institutions that have expressed fears that the scheme could create a
boom is the International Monetary Fund. Earlier this month, Vince Cable, the
business secretary, echoed such warnings.

"We should certainly think about how it should come into effect, indeed whether
it should come into effect in the light of changing market conditions," he said.
"We don't want a new bubble."

Cameron enters his party Continued on page 2 ? ? WW

? Continued from page 1 conference on the back foot after Labour's blizzard of
populist policies, including childcare for all primary school pupils, cutting
rates for small businesses and a big new housebuilding programme. The Tories
will this week counter those policies with a £200-a-year tax break for married
couples, a crackdown on police handing out "slap on the wrist" cautions and more
money for cancer drugs.

Defending the tax break for married couples, Cameron last night said that it was
a case of a "promise made, promise delivered".

He added that the tax break was "better than we said in the manifesto".

Osborne has also signalled that tariffs added to energy bills to pay for green
policies could be reduced to ease the burden for consumers.

Cameron said subsidies to support wind farms will not last "a second longer than
necessary".

"We want competitive fuel prices, not for 20 months, we want them for 20 years."

He also said there would be "a limit" to the amount the government will spend on
the HS2 rail line.

During the conference, Cameron will insist the economy is finally on the right
track and appeal to voters to let the Conservatives "finish the job".

The Tories will also focus on the public perception of Miliband as an inadequate
leader - although 30% think he is doing well in today's poll, up from 22% last
week. His decision to freeze prices for energy is supported by 63% of
respondents.

Cameron described Miliband's plans to make large companies pay higher tax bills
as "nuts", warning that with the economy "finally turning the corner" the Labour
leader's "anti-enterprise rhetoric" would "absolutely wreck it".

In a bid to appeal to his party's right wing, he said the new immigration bill
would stop migrants with no right to free public services coming to Britain and
relying on state hand-outs.

"Our system is being abused in terms of housing, in terms of health, in terms of
legal aid," he told a Sunday newspaper. "We need to crack down on every single
one of those things. We are going to stop the idea of something for nothing."

He also said the EU should be given "one last chance" before voters are given a
say on whether Britain should leave in a referendum by 2017.

The prime minister added that although he could understand why voters were
attracted to the UKIP leader Nigel Farage, he was "the one person" who could
deliver an EU referendum.

However, Cameron's attempts to appeal to disaffected Tories who might be
attracted by UKIP could be overshadowed tomorrow when Farage speaks at three
events - despite the party leadership's clumsy attempt to airbrush him from the
conference. In an attempt to keep members away from the UKIP leader, his name
has been erased from the official programme schedules for the three fringe
meetings he is due to attend.

In one case, Forest, the smoking lobby group, had an advertisement for which it
had paid more than £3,000 altered to remove any mention of Farage. The move
illustrates the concern among Tory strategists over his popularity and the
potential impact of UKIP on the 2015 election.

"They have chosen to try and hide the fact he [Farage] is going to be there and
to make sure their members - and I am actually one of them - don't find out
about it," said Robert Oulds, director of the Eurosceptic Bruges Group hosting
one of the meetings.

"They also made it clear that they didn't want us inviting him ... the phone
call came from someone very senior in the party."

Farage said: "Yet again the Conservative high command, for it is they that are
frit, do not trust or like their own people."

Simon Richards, director of the Freedom Association, which Farage will also
address, said: "We had shelled out the £250 for the fringe listing ... There was
initially some suggestion that they might be retaining our money so we did
investigate taking them to court for breach of contract but to be fair they then
said they were refunding the money."

Tomorrow evening, Farage is due at the Forest event - called A Beer and a Fag
with Farage - which is being held at Manchester's Comedy Store.

"The ad cost us £3,360, so we aren't very happy that they chose to doctor it
without any consultation whatsoever," said Simon Clark, director of Forest. "The
decision to effectively censor our meeting seems a bit heavy-handed to say the
least."

PM should have final say in war debate, page 8. Tories must pass the Bridget
Jones test, Editorial, page 16 Alan Lewis, a Tory party vice-chairman, has been
arrested on suspicion of raping a teenage girl in the 1960s.

Lewis, 75, owns the Crombie clothing chain and has a fortune of £260m, according
to The Sunday Times Rich List. He has been bailed pending further inquiries.

Rape arrest

? Continued from page 1 [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lewis: has clothing fortune of £260m
The conference programme, left, before Tory officials erased Nigel Farage's name

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Tories rush out cheap home loans;
Labour leaps to 11-point lead ; Cameron puts EU in last chance saloon

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1292 words


DAVID CAMERON is to bring forward the government's controversial mortgage
guarantee scheme to help more people to buy their own homes.

In a dramatic bid to counter Labour's populist new energy price policy, the
prime minister will introduce the second part of his Help to Buy scheme within a
fortnight - underwriting up to £130bn of newhome loans.

The first scheme to help people with a small deposit buy new-build homes was
launched earlier this year.

"I am impatient to help young people get on the housing ladder," Cameron told
The Sun on Sunday.

"What concerns me is that you can't buy a house or a flat even if you are doing
OK, you have got decent job prospects and good earnings," he added. "I am not
prepared to be a prime minister of a country with caps on aspiration."

The announcement will surprise many in the property industry, which did not
expect the policy to come into force until the new year.

It comes as the Conservatives start their party conference with a double-digit
deficit to Labour. Ed Miliband's party has surged after his pledge last week to
freeze gas and electricity bills for 20 months if he wins the election in 2015.

A YouGov poll for today's Sunday Times puts Labour on 42%, with the Tories
lagging behind on 31% and UKIP third on 13%. Cameron's coalition partners, the
Liberal Democrats, languish on nine points. Cameron will attempt to regain the
initiative by illustrating his determination to help hard-working people get on
the housing ladder. He is expected to declare that he will not "stand by" while
people on average wages cannot buy their own home.

However, questions remain over whether the construction industry is ready and
there are also fears the policy could create a dangerous housing bubble.

Last week, in response to such criticism, the chancellor George Osborne
announced that he was giving the Bank of England powers to review the scheme
annually and advise whether it should continue. The first review will be in
September next year.

The average deposit for a home worth £200,000 is currently £40,000. Under the
new government deal, buyers will need a deposit of just 5%, with the Treasury
underwriting up to 20% of their loan in addition.

The Treasury is offering total guarantees of £12bn. These will be available on
any home priced at less than £600,000.

According to housing charities, the average single young person in England
requires 14 years to save enough for a deposit on their first home.

Cameron is expected to describe the continuing requirement for such high
deposits as "unsustainable", arguing that there is no need to wait until January
to bring in the scheme.

Whitehall sources insist the banks are "right behind" the decision to bring
forward the policy. A national advertising campaign will be launched by the
government and mortgage lenders in the second week of October to alert voters to
the new deal.

Among the institutions that have expressed fears that the scheme could create a
boom is the International Monetary Fund. Earlier this month, Vince Cable, the
business secretary, echoed such warnings.

"We should certainly think about how it should come into effect, indeed whether
it should come into effect in the light of changing market conditions," he said.
"We don't want a new bubble."

Cameron enters his party Continued on page 2 ? ? WW

? Continued from page 1 conference on the back foot after Labour's blizzard of
populist policies, including childcare for all primary school pupils, cutting
rates for small businesses and a big new housebuilding programme. The Tories
will this week counter those policies with a £200-a-year tax break for married
couples, a crackdown on police handing out "slap on the wrist" cautions and more
money for cancer drugs.

Defending the tax break for married couples, Cameron last night said that it was
a case of a "promise made, promise delivered".

He added that the tax break was "better than we said in the manifesto".

Osborne has also signalled that tariffs added to energy bills to pay for green
policies could be reduced to ease the burden for consumers.

Cameron said subsidies to support wind farms will not last "a second longer than
necessary".

"We want competitive fuel prices, not for 20 months, we want them for 20 years."

He also said there would be "a limit" to the amount the government will spend on
the HS2 rail line.

During the conference, Cameron will insist the economy is finally on the right
track and appeal to voters to let the Conservatives "finish the job".

The Tories will also focus on the public perception of Miliband as an inadequate
leader - although 30% think he is doing well in today's poll, up from 22% last
week. His decision to freeze prices for energy is supported by 63% of
respondents.

Cameron described Miliband's plans to make large companies pay higher tax bills
as "nuts", warning that with the economy "finally turning the corner" the Labour
leader's "anti-enterprise rhetoric" would "absolutely wreck it".

In a bid to appeal to his party's right wing, he said the new immigration bill
would stop migrants with no right to free public services coming to Britain and
relying on state hand-outs.

"Our system is being abused in terms of housing, in terms of health, in terms of
legal aid," he told a Sunday newspaper. "We need to crack down on every single
one of those things. We are going to stop the idea of something for nothing."

He also said the EU should be given "one last chance" before voters are given a
say on whether Britain should leave in a referendum by 2017.

The prime minister added that although he could understand why voters were
attracted to the UKIP leader Nigel Farage, he was "the one person" who could
deliver an EU referendum.

However, Cameron's attempts to appeal to disaffected Tories who might be
attracted by UKIP could be overshadowed tomorrow when Farage speaks at three
events - despite the party leadership's clumsy attempt to airbrush him from the
conference. In an attempt to keep members away from the UKIP leader, his name
has been erased from the official programme schedules for the three fringe
meetings he is due to attend.

In one case, Forest, the smoking lobby group, had an advertisement for which it
had paid more than £3,000 altered to remove any mention of Farage. The move
illustrates the concern among Tory strategists over his popularity and the
potential impact of UKIP on the 2015 election.

"They have chosen to try and hide the fact he [Farage] is going to be there and
to make sure their members - and I am actually one of them - don't find out
about it," said Robert Oulds, director of the Eurosceptic Bruges Group hosting
one of the meetings.

"They also made it clear that they didn't want us inviting him ... the phone
call came from someone very senior in the party."

Farage said: "Yet again the Conservative high command, for it is they that are
frit, do not trust or like their own people."

Simon Richards, director of the Freedom Association, which Farage will also
address, said: "We had shelled out the £250 for the fringe listing ... There was
initially some suggestion that they might be retaining our money so we did
investigate taking them to court for breach of contract but to be fair they then
said they were refunding the money."

Tomorrow evening, Farage is due at the Forest event - called A Beer and a Fag
with Farage - which is being held at Manchester's Comedy Store.

"The ad cost us £3,360, so we aren't very happy that they chose to doctor it
without any consultation whatsoever," said Simon Clark, director of Forest. "The
decision to effectively censor our meeting seems a bit heavy-handed to say the
least."

PM should have final say in war debate, page 8. Tories must pass the Bridget
Jones test, Editorial, page 16

? Continued from page 1 [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The conference programme, left, before Tory officials erased Nigel
Farage's name

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TORIES MUST PASS THE BRIDGET JONES TEST

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 626 words


David Cameron and the Tories face the toughest of challenges this week in
Manchester. Labour and the Liberal Democrats had successful party conferences
despite deep and justified doubts about their policies, particularly Ed
Miliband's crude and unworkable populism on energy prices. UKIP had a car crash
of a conference but is still the ghost at this week's Tory feast.

Today's YouGov poll for this newspaper shows that so far this conference season
the Tories have gone backwards, Labour is up and the Liberal Democrats are back
to square one. Not only is Labour 11 points ahead of the Tories but its support,
42%, exceeds the combined strength of the two coalition parties, 40%. In the
polls, UKIP is Britain's third party.

That sums up the Conservative dilemma. Those who have defected from the Tories
to UKIP, roughly nine in 10 of Nigel Farage's supporters, will be tempted back
only if they get some genuine red meat from Mr Cameron and his colleagues. But
centrist voters - women especially - are put off by unfeeling Tory tribalism.
David Willetts, the universities' minister, once said Tories needed to pass the
"Bridget Jones test". In a week in which we are serialising her latest
adventures, it is worth recalling what the fictional diarist said: "It is
perfectly obvious that Labour stands for sharing, kindness, gays, single mothers
and Nelson Mandela as opposed to braying bossy men having affairs with everyone
shag shag shag left right and centre and going to the Ritz in Paris then telling
all the presenters off on the Today programme."

The Tories, however, need UKIP voters back, too: Lord Ashcroft's poll this month
showed defections to UKIP could let in Labour in 32 Tory-held marginal
constituencies.

The £1,000 transferable tax allowance for married couples - the long-awaited
married tax relief - will help at the margin but for many disenchanted true
blues only partly compensates for the prime minister's enthusiastic support for
gay marriage. The smart political thing to have done would have been to combine
the two. As it is, the marriage tax break risks looking like an afterthought and
meagre compensation for the loss of child benefit.

Appealing to UKIP deserters means being tough on Europe and immigration. But Mr
Cameron's reluctant offer of an in-out referendum on EU membership did nothing
to reverse the tide. On immigration, the Tories are in danger of being caught
between getting the numbers down and depriving businesses of key staff. Net
migration last year was lower but nevertheless totalled 176,000.

Iain Duncan Smith can always be relied on for red meat - the welfare cap is
widely popular - but his workfare ideas for the unemployed have to avoid the
bedroom tax trap: policies that seem cruel to many voters and so fail the
Bridget Jones test.

What the Tories need is to show, after Labour's shift to the left, that they not
only commands the centre-right of politics but are still fired by a radical
purpose. That means a Goldilocks approach: not too hot so it appeals to UKIP
voters but puts everybody else off, and not too cold so that it fails to
convince natural Tory supporters that Cameron is on their side. It's no mean
trick to pull off.

It requires radical and workable policies, to set against opportunistic Labour
ideas that voters will surely see through. The so-called Generation Y, those now
in their twenties, provides vital clues. This age range is socially liberal but
expects no handouts from the state. The Tories must therefore tame the big
state, cut red tape and reform the public services. But they must avoid the
"nasty party" charge by helping the low-paid and convincing voters that the
recovery will benefit everybody. Even if Bridget Jones is unlikely to vote Tory,
her daughter just might.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

SEANAD VOTE GIVES US NO CHOICE - WE HAVE TO SAY YES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 628 words


If the government's proposal to abolish the Seanad in Friday's referendum proves
successful then the institution, 76 years old in its current incarnation, will
cease to exist after the next general election. It is, by any measure, a
defining moment in the republic's history but, in terms of public interest,
ranks far behind the Maastricht and Lisbon treaties or any of the social issues
that have exercised the nation over the decades.

That is understandable. The status of politicians is low, so it is unrealistic
to expect the public to become exercised at the prospect of some of them losing
pay, pensions and perks. Attempting to mobilise interest has not been helped by
Enda Kenny, however. The taoiseach, the driving force behind the referendum, has
refused to debate outside the Dail with those who oppose abolition. His
reluctance to engage does Mr Kenny no credit. Arguing his case, especially as it
revolves around overstated cost savings, is evidently seen as something of a
risk. Silence, his handlers have advised, is a better option.

The choice offered to voters this week is simple. Abolish the Seanad or allow it
to continue in its present format. Those opposed to abolition believe the
government is engaged in a power grab. It might look that way, but the reality
is different. Not only are the Seanad's powers restricted, but even if this were
not the case, the manner in which its membership is structured means the
government is rarely in danger of being embarrassed there. In fact, this has
happened on only a couple of occasions in its long history. The
anti-abolitionists also argue that the Seanad has been graced with the presence
of fine individuals who have made immense contributions to public life. The roll
call of the good and the great includes Mary Robinson, WB Yeats, Horace
Plunkett, Douglas Hyde, Noel Browne, Maurice Hayes, Gordon Wilson, Benjamin
Guinness, Brian Friel, Valerie Goulding and TK Whitaker. As Des O'Malley,
founder of the Progressive Democrats, pointed out last week, these people made
their name outside the Seanad, and not because of anything they achieved in it.
Take away these stellar names and you are left in most cases with a hotchpotch
of failed TDs, wannabe TDs, timeservers and political-party puppets.

The government's referendum is a case of "take it or leave it", and there are
many who dislike this stark choice. This constituency would prefer the
government to reform the Seanad and make it fit for purpose in a modern
democracy. They envisage an upper house with proper elections, relevant panels,
and giving a voice to those not represented in Dail Eireann, such as emigrants.
A reformed Seanad, they argue, could also keep an eye on the mountain of EU
legislation being dumped into Irish law, mostly by statute and with no
discussion whatsoever.

This certainly sounds attractive. The government, however, has made it clear
that voting against abolition in the referendum will not force it to reform the
upper house. If the Seanad survives, it will continue to operate precisely as it
does today. It is a truism that politicians do not keep their promises, but
given that successive administrations have ignored several considered reports
produced over the decades outlining proposed Seanad reform, we can take it this
is one promise Mr Kenny intends to keep. Anyway, why would ministers in the Dail
dilute their powers by giving some to the Seanad? A Yes vote will represent a
facile victory for the taoiseach, allowing him to cash in on the low regard in
which his profession is held. A No vote would raise questions - again - about
his leadership. Regardless of what voters decide, our view is that members of
the upper house have not done enough to convince us their institution is worth
preserving.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Vote No to stop executive rule

BYLINE: MICHAEL McDOWELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 713 words


PRACTICALLY nobody who intends voting Yes on Friday will be aware of exactly
what is contained in the 57-page Amendment to the Constitution Bill. Hidden away
in the small print are constitutional amendments of which 95% of the voters will
probably never have heard.

Among the deletions and amendments is a proposal to remove from the president
the right under Article 27 to refer legislation to the people for their
decision.

There is also a proposal to abolish the Article 28 right of the taoiseach to
nominate non-TD experts, the likes of Professor James Dooge.

Plus, there is a proposal to amend Article 29 to remove the "double-lock" we
were promised at the Lisbon referendum on surrender of our veto in EU matters of
fundamental importance such as corporation tax. The new Article 29 would allow
Dail Eireann the sole decision on surrender of this right.

There is also a proposal that a government can remove a member of the judiciary
by the vote of a single chamber under an amended Article 35.

A Yes vote will end the possibility of having Northern Irish citizens such as
Gordon Wilson, Seamus Mallon and Bríd Rogers as members of our national
parliament. It will sweep out of the constitution all the parliamentary checks
and balances and leave the government whips in total control of the legislative
process.

Under Articles 15.10 and 15.11 of the amended constitution, a majority in Dail
Eireann under the control of a government whip will be able to decide all issues
relating to procedure, such as whether a bill is pushed through without debate.
A majority in the Dail will be free to decide what, if any, consideration is
given to government bills. Speaking rights and private members' bills in the
sole chamber - the Dail - will be regulated by government supporters.

Instead of opening up our parliament by making sure that both of its houses
fulfil the roles the people's constitution envisaged for them, all power will be
put in the hands of a Dail which will be controlled by government through our
draconian whip system.

Consider the fate of Lucinda Creighton. While I do not agree with her views on
abortion, I am certain no country in western Europe would have sacked a
competent minister for European affairs, expelled her from a parliamentary
party, evicted her from Dail offices and told her she would be deselected at the
next general election, all for standing by sincere views on a matter of
conscience. Taoiseach Liam Cosgrave was allowed a free vote against his own
government on contraception a long time ago. Now conscience is a capital
offence, politically.

The Tory and Liberal Democrat MPs who opposed bombing Syria have not been
expelled from their parties. Ireland, alone among European states, has converted
the role of TDs to the meek status of servile rubber-stamps of the executive.
And now we are being asked to remove from the Oireachtas the one chamber where
independent voices such as Garret FitzGerald, Mary Robinson, WB Yeats, Ken
Whitaker, David Norris and many others spoke out for minorities and spoke up on
issues on which others preferred to remain silent.

The "super-committee" plan has no constitutional status and will fall into
disuse as soon as it becomes inconvenient.

We are sleepwalking our way into a rubber-stamp parliament where the majority
bullies its way on every issue.

For what? The arguments in favour of abolition are threadbare. The "save
(EURO)20m" claim was blown apart. The "fewer politicians" claim is bogus. Dublin
is to get an extra 60 paid councillors in the local government shake-up next
June. The government has meekly side-stepped its "Cut the Dail by 20 TDs" pledge
to the people.

The Seanad has used its limited powers, amending this government's legislation
more than 550 times. It has important safeguard roles which, though rarely used,
are integral to our democracy. You don't rip out burglar alarms because you
haven't been burgled or block up the fire escapes because you haven't had a
fire. You improve them if you think they are not adequate.

This week we have a choice between bogus populism posing as rubber-stamp reform
and taking a God-sent opportunity to stand up for ourselves, and to extract real
reform, by voting No.

Michael McDowell is a former tanaiste and leader of the Progressive Democrats

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

TEARING DOWN THE HOUSE;
Enda Kenny risks his reputation in asking the public to vote for the abolition
of the Seanad - especially as few seem to care, report Sarah McInerney and
Stephen O'Brien

BYLINE: Sarah McInerney; Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 2648 words


Francesco Pappalardo watched dubiously as Joanna Tuffy, a Labour TD, canvassed
shoppers in Dublin for a No vote in the Seanad referendum last Wednesday. The
Italian has been living in Ireland for more than 20 years, but there are some
things about the Irish psyche he believes he may never understand. For example,
this controversy over whether to abolish the upper house of the Oireachtas.

"You have a population of 4.5m people," said the Lucan resident, shaking his
head at Tuffy's "power grab" leaflets. "How could you imagine you need to have
two houses of parliament, with almost 230 politicians? For a country this size?
We have two houses in Italy [population 60m], and we're thinking about getting
rid of one of them."

Tuffy gamely tried to change his mind, shouting over the clatter of shopping
trolleys outside Superquinn. She argued that much of the work of the senate,
such as reviewing legislation, went unnoticed but was important nonetheless.

Pappalardo remained unconvinced.

"I just don't see on a practical basis that the senate has had any impact," he
said cheerfully. "For 4.5m people, one house is enough."

Tuffy knew when she was beaten and diverted her attention to more promising
prospects. But as the evening wore on, it appeared Pappalardo was not in the
majority in suburban Dublin. Many shoppers declared their intention to vote No
in the referendum this Friday and many others said they had not yet made up
their minds.

Opinion polls in recent weeks have shown 60% of the public are in favour of
Seanad abolition, but both Yes and No sides believe that the gap may narrow in
the last week of the campaign.

So is there a chance the No side can snatch a late victory and defeat a
referendum that was the brainchild of Enda Kenny, the taoiseach? ON APRIL 19,
1934, the front page of the Daily Express carried the headline: "Senate must go,
says de Valera". A tag line explained that the taoiseach felt the upper house
would "foster revolutionary spirit".

It is precisely because this revolutionary spirit did not materialise that the
government is now arguing the Seanad must be abolished. Richard Bruton, Fine
Gael's director of elections, points out the last time the Seanad used its power
to block legislation was in 1964, when it delayed a bill regulating pawnbrokers.
"What type of watchdog only barks every 50 years?" he asks.

The No side counters that the Seanad has caught more than 500 defects in
legislation from the Dail, including in the Personal Insolvency Bill. The
argument has irked government senators, too, who say the only reason the Seanad
doesn't block legislation more frequently is because the party whip is imposed.

"A group of us are considering voting against the government next Wednesday by
supporting a bill from Feargal Quinn [an independent senator] to abolish
upward-only rent reviews," said one government senator last week. "That would
show just how the Seanad can bark."

Such a move would certainly be attention-grabbing, but it may come too late to
save the Seanad. "It's only since the threat of abolition that we've started to
hear anything from the senators," said Yvonne Nolan from Celbridge, when
approached by Tuffy on Wednesday. "I think that's a very poor reflection."

The No side believes it can make hay with the hotly disputed claim by Fine Gael
that the abolition of the Seanad would save (EURO)20m a year. Last weekend, the
Oireachtas said that while it costs (EURO)20m to run the Seanad, it was not
possible to say how much would be saved if the chamber were abolished, as many
staff would remain and there would be additional costs in pensions for redundant
senators.

Democracy Matters, a civilsociety group on the No side, has seized on this
"bogus claim" as proof the government cannot be trusted, and used it to bolster
an argument for the need for the Seanad's checks and balances on the Dail.

One House, a civil-society group on the Yes side, has distanced itself from Fine
Gael's (EURO)20m claim, with member Eoin O'Malley branding it "crass and
populist".

This weekend, Bruton stressed a different aspect of Fine Gael's campaign when he
appeared outside the Norwegian embassy in Dublin and declared Ireland had too
many politicians. "Norway has a total of 169 national politicians with a
population of 4.8m, while Ireland has a total of 226 national politicians with a
population of 4.6m," said the enterprise minister.

"If the Seanad is abolished, and taking into account the reduction of eight TDs
after the next election, the number of national politicians here will be reduced
to 158 politicians. This is much more in line with other European countries of
Ireland's size."

Democracy Matters claims Fine Gael is again manipulating figures to suit its
abolition agenda. It says Norway has 10,958 representatives at regional and
municipal level, while Ireland has 1,175; this means Norway has 2,148
representatives for every 1m people, compared with 255 for Ireland.

The Fine Gael posters urging people to vote for "fewer politicians" haven't gone
down well in Leinster House, with many TDs and senators disgusted at the
implicit message. "It's appealing to the lowest common denominator - I think
it's disgraceful," said one Labour minister last week.

Tuffy, meanwhile, has produced figures showing Ireland has the same number of
TDs now as it did in 1981, when the "population was 1m smaller. "The number of
political advisers has risen exponentially in that time, though," she said.

It is debatable whether this fine political detail will resonate with the
public, however. Many on the No side grudgingly admit the "fewer politicians"
posters are likely to be effective.

The third prong of Fine Gael's attack has focused on the elitist nature of the
Seanad, with Bruton describing the upper house as "a rigged body" elected by
just 1% of the popula-population .

Politicians elect 90% of senators, while graduates of Trinity College Dublin and
the National Universities of Ireland elect the remaining 10%.

The Socialist party, which is pro-abolition, summed this up with a poster
comparing the number of Seanad votes in two Dublin postcodes. "Dublin 4: 3,491.
Dublin 10: 126. Make your first Seanad vote the last," it says. Leo Varadkar,
the transport minister, found himself in the unusual role of endorsing the
socialists on Twitter. "Fair dues to the Trots," he wrote. "They know how to do
good posters. Agitprop."

" NURSES, teachers and gardai; and electricians, plumbers and carpenters make up
the backbone of the C1 and C2 social groups. If Fine Gael's analysis of the
Seanad referendum campaign is accurate, they form the backbone of the Yes vote.

Fine Gael canvassers say they come to C1/C2 doors and hear: "Abolish them? Of
course I want to abolish them. I never had the right to vote for them, so I
certainly won't vote to keep them." One senior Fine Gael strategist said: "These
guys can't wait to give the Seanad a kicking."

Or can they? There are few expectations that the turnout will exceed 40%. Less
than 35% of voters went to the polls for the children's rights referendum last
year, although it was a single-issue poll and was expected to be passed.

"The C1/C2 voters are more likely to get home from work and put their feet up in
front of the telly or head out for a pint than go down to the polling station
when there isn't an election happening at the same time," said a Fianna Fail
senator.

"This election will be decided by the AB voters and they see this as a solo run
by Enda Kenny."

On the doorsteps, Fine Gael canvassers have found the restricted Seanad
electorate does annoy voters, however. "It should have been gone years ago," one
retired man told Bruton during a canvass of Artane's Whitethorn estate. "My
brother was a graduate of University College Dublin and for years they used to
post out a voting slip with all the bumpf from the candidates. It was a waste of
money - he was in Canada."

The No side argues the undemocratic nature of Seanad elections could be fixed by
implementing either one of two Seanad reform bills put forward by senators John
Crown and Katherine Zappone. These suggest expanding the franchise to everyone
on the island of Ireland and to emigrants.

Zappone's bill also proposes a mandatory 50:50 gender split, a pay cut for
senators, and giving the Seanad new powers, including the scrutiny of EU
regulations and ministerial appointments to public bodies. Fianna Fail, which is
pro-retention, has suggested there be representation of minorities in the
Seanad. This would include members of the "travelling community, the "new
Irish", the diaspora and the elderly.

The government insists it will not reform the Seanad if the public reject the
referendum on Friday. "What's on offer is either it stays as it is or we get the
permission of the Irish people to abolish it after the next election," said
Regina Doherty, Fine Gael's deputy director of elections. "We do not see the
Seanad as having any place in a modern society with a population of 4.4m, so it
would be futile for us to say that if the public vote No, then we'll go off and
reform it."

MICHAEL MCDOWELL, a former "  justice minister and member ofDemocracy Matters,
feels the government is saying this only because Kenny cannot risk "hurting his
case for abolition. "It's an absolutely crude and in your face approach," he
said. "After a defeat of this measure, I believe that if Enda Kenny persisted in
that attitude it would be political suicide."

Noel Whelan, another member of Democracy Matters, points to statements by
ministers Phil Hogan and Simon Coveney before the Seanad referendum campaign
began in earnest. Both suggested the government would consider reform of the
Seanad if it were not abol-ished. If the government's intention was to sow seeds
of doubt, however, it may have worked. During Tuffy's canvass in Lucan, many
voters asked whether the Seanad would be reformed if they voted No. "I have no
faith whatsoever that the government would make any real changes to it," Yvonne
Nolan told the Labour TD.

Others, however, appeared to take it as a given that a No vote would bring about
change. "I'm voting No because I want real reform," said Frank McCaffrey from
Lucan.

The majority of those with whom Tuffy spoke admitted to not knowing much about
the issue and were looking for guidance on how to vote. With little effort, the
Labour TD was able to convince several to vote No. Given 15% of people in last
weekend's Behaviour & Attitudes poll for The Sunday Times said they didn't know
how to vote, it could still be all to play for. In previous referendums, the
Don't Knows have broken more for the No side than to Yes.

Acutely aware of this, Bruton will seek to use the superior resources of his
party, in terms of finance and number of campaigners, in the final stages of the
argument. With local-authority elections next June, Bruton has offered potential
Fine Gael candidates personalised referendum leaflets to push through
letterboxes in their electoral area. The take-up has been strong, he said. By
Thursday, 750,000 campaign leaflets had been shipped around the country, with
council candidates taking at least half of that number.

Sinn Fein has declared that its "machine will spring into action" for the final
weekend. Fianna Fail has sought to counter this with 600,000 leaflets of its
own.

Senior Fine Gael and Fianna Fail strategists agree a lot depends on turnout. If
more than 40% vote, the referendum is likely to be passed. If it's significantly
below 40%, Kenny's proposal is in trouble.

"People are completely disengaged from this issue - the turnout is going to be
really Low," said John Whelan, a Labour senator. "I would guess we're looking at
a turnout of about 30%, which means [just over] 15% of the electorate will
decide the issue."

This is Kenny's referendum. " It was his idea to put it to the people and his
party has led the campaign. A defeat would be highly embarrassing for the
taoiseach.

Is it possible, however, that a victory could be worse? Many Fine Gael and
Labour senators are smarting at the tone of Fine Gael's campaign, which they
believe has been highly disparaging of the work they do. Fine Gael senators
boycotted a scheduled meeting with Kenny to discuss the referendum last
Wednesday and many informal discussions have been taking place on what happens
if the government were to win.

"If this referendum is passed, there'll be a general election within six
months," predicted one Fine Gael senator darkly last week. "Legislation will be
blocked every week. Bruton says we've barked only once in 50 years? He'll see us
bark 50 times in the next 2Å years if the Seanad is abolished. Å Why not? We'll
have nothing to lose."

Unelected members' club THE byzantine way in which the Seanad is chosen - by
councillors, university graduates and the taoiseach - has resulted in some
colourful characters being chosen for the Upper House. Here are 10 of them, the
likes of whom we may not see again in Leinster House if the Seanad is abolished
this week. Why? Because they are unlikely to be elected as TDs for the Dail.

John Magnier Caligula threatened to make his favourite horse a senator but
Charles Haughey bestowed the honour on his favourite horseman. After his
appointment to the Seanad as a taoiseach's nominee in 1987, Magnier spoke three
times - twice about horses. This included proposing the reintroduction of the
presidential mounted escort on ceremonial occasions.

Martin Mackin Now a leading publicrelations executive, Mackin was temporarily
nominated to the Seanad by Bertie Ahern in 2002. So-called "weekend senators"
are entitled to free parking at Leinster House and access to the members' bar in
perpetuity. Other Fianna Fail footsoldiers who did similar Seanad service
included PJ Mara, Pat Farrell and Des Richardson.

Gordon Lambert One of Ireland's leading art collectors, he donated several
hundred works to the Irish Museum of Modern Art. An executive with Jacob's
Biscuits, he was nominated to the Seanad in 1977 by Jack Lynch, taoiseach at the
time.

Mary Robinson A Dublin city councillor, the future president never succeeded in
her attempts to get elected to the Dail. However, as a Trinity senator from 1969
until 1989, she made intelligent use of the upper chamber to campaign on a range
of liberal issues.

Eamon de Buitléar Haughey's nominees to the Seanad were indeed a motley crew. As
well as Magnier, there was playwright Brian Friel and architect George Eogan.
Arguably the biggest contribution was made by de Buitléar, film-maker and
conservationist, who spoke about such esoteric subjects as otter-hunting and the
Blasket Islands.

Eoghan Harris TV producer, writer, ideologue, campaigner and once even a Sunday
Times columnist, Harris brought a wide range of skills, and a good deal of
colour, to the Seanad between 2007 and 2011. The appointment was regarded as a
thank-you from Bertie Ahern for Harris's influential support in the previous
general election campaign.

Eamonn Coghlan How many senates can boast a world-class athlete in their ranks?
Coghlan won the 5,000m at the World Championships in 1983, and a taoiseach's
nomination to the Seanad in 2011.

Edward Haughey Apart from Magnier, Edward Haughey may be the richest person ever
to sit in the Seanad. Baron Ballyedmond, as he is now, currently sits in the
British House of Lords on behalf of the Tories. He was twice nominated to the
Seanad - by Albert Reynolds in 1994 and by Bertie Ahern three years later.

Sam McAughtry Northern Ireland has sent many distinguished senators south of the
border, including Gordon Wilson, Seamus Mallon and Brid Rodgers. Another was
writer McAughtry, who had served in the RAF.

Oliver St John Gogarty A surgeon and a poet who was the inspiration for Buck
Mulligan in Ulysses, Gogarty was appointed a Free State senator in 1922 and
served until the first Seanad was abolished in 1936. That upper house was
replaced: this one probably won't be.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kenny's referendum is opposed by, from left, Feargal Quinn, Lucinda
Creighton, Diarmaid Ferriter and Mary O'Rourke

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Oops! The dog ate Ed and Dave's homework

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1044 words


'What's your dog called, Stuart?" I asked my old acquaintance Stuart Holmes, an
all-weather political protester. "Stuart," he replied, with the unbending
sullenness that has characterised his vigils over the past 30 years.

He could have called the dog Robert Maxwell, after the tycoon he browbeat into
supporting a smoking ban by camping on the doorstep of the Daily Mirror, or
Fukushima, after his current protest against nuclear power, but, no, the name is
just Stuart. For all the political spit and rhetorical polish so far expended
this conference season, I've had more comeback from the public about Holmes's
much-photographed street brawl with the equally humourless Tory broadcaster and
publisher Iain Dale.

In case you missed it, Dale brought the disgraced Labour spin doctor Damian
McBride to Brighton to push a book, and then tried to stop Holmes getting
himself, the dog and his placards into the back of shot during a live television
interview.

As I've travelled around the country this autumn, it has seemed to me that there
is a remarkable similarity between Stuart's attitude to politics and the wider
public's current mood. He makes his way from political event to political event,
but he has no interest in what happens inside the buildings from which he is
excluded, except when he hears that the debate has touched on his issue of the
moment. Politicians are there to be heckled as they hurry by and to be denounced
for not signing up to his obsessions. In other words, he could be a typical
member of the BBC Question Time audience.

I have never known a time when politicians have talked so desperately about
their offer to "hard-pressed" or "hard-working" people or when those "ordinary
people" outside the bubble have had lower expectations of what politicians can
do for them.

This is a pity, really, because battle lines are being drawn up for the most
ideologically polarised election in a generation. You might expect whoever wins
the political argument to win the election, but the victor is more likely to be
the party most closely aligned to the apathetic public mood.

Ed Miliband's conference slogan was "We can do better than this", but he is
betting on things going badly at least until the next general election -
predatory banks and big business, failing hospitals, more millionaires braying
on their yachts as the rest sink. He sees making things "fairer" as synonymous
with making them "better". Re-engineering the structural economy wholesale is
what matters to him. The rest will follow.

In a conference speech lasting more than an hour, he found little or no time to
deal with crime, schools, immigration, welfare and public sector reform, the
issues that have been the common currency of British political debate.

The leader's one nod to doorstep campaigners, the 20-month freeze on gas and
electricity prices, stands out as the exception to the rule. However, Miliband
repeatedly drew an analogy with the banking sector, arguing that energy prices
were the consequence of systemic failure in regulation of private, and in this
case privatised, businesses. His promise of 1m extra homes likewise depended on
different regulation of land use.

The beaming Neil Kinnock believes he has got his party back. Yet Miliband's
preference for economic analysis over punter-friendly policy comes from the era
before Kinnock's modernising leadership. Nor was there any attempt to take his
audience out of its comfort zone. Miliband promised to undo policies such as the
"bedroom tax", which his party does not like, whereas Kinnock (and Blair)
persuaded Labour to move in directions it did not like.

For now Miliband's conference performance has restored Labour's double-digit
lead in our YouGov poll today. He also inflicted a stinging defeat on the
coalition over Syria in parliament, so it will be difficult for Cameron to go on
bashing him as "useless" and "weak, weak, weak" - an attack in any case that was
borrowed from Blair, and worked better from his vantage point in opposition to
the beleaguered John Major.

Cameron still believes Miliband's approach defies the common sense of the
British people and has tacked up last week's front page of the City AM
freesheet, with the headline "Labour declares war on business". This year the
prime minister plans to go global, pointing out that, unlike the Labour leader,
he has taken the trouble to visit California, China, South Korea and India. In
his view, striving for technological progress raises living standards rather
than being "a race to the bottom".

Cameron plans to keep his party on the centre ground, just to the right of the
Liberal Democrats. Unlike McBride's confessions last week, Matthew D'Ancona's
tome timed for this conference will celebrate the constructive tension within
the government.

As we learnt at the Lib Dem meeting in Glasgow, the coalition parties have
already parcelled out the policy announcements. Clegg got primary school meals,
so Cameron and Osborne are rolling out married tax relief for middle and
low-income couples.

The economic recovery gives the chancellor a little wriggle room for his
presentation tomorrow, so expect some of the sharpest edges of austerity to be
softened and the issue of alleged giveaways to the better-off, such as help to
buy, to be raised. Since the idea of welfare reform tops popularity ratings, a
switch of policy on the contentious spare room subsidy seems unlikely.

On the fringes of Manchester, fewer rebel tents are being pitched this year.
Until parliament resumes, backbenchers have slaked their dissatisfaction with
the Syria vote. The Conservative meltdown on the EU is in remission, palliated
by the referendum commitment until next year's crisis over UKIP and the European
elections.

The three main parties are each giving the impression of uniting behind a leader
and his strategy, but there's a provisional air about it all. At this stage in a
parliament it is usually possible to discern what the next election is going to
be about. Not this time.

The party leaders claim to be reading the public mood - they wouldn't be
politicians otherwise. But their conclusions are so at variance because it's
difficult to gauge someone's opinion when they are distracted by a scuffle
between two men and a dog.

@adamboultonsky

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Sir Humphrey dusts off his plot for EU rule;
Just as in 1975, a cabal of civil servants is ready to water down any new deal,
writes Matthew Elliott

BYLINE: Matthew Elliott

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 912 words


As the Conservatives arrive in Manchester for their annual conference, there are
many inside and outside the party advising David Cameron and co to stay away
from the issue of Europe. Just as Ed Miliband almost completely ignored the
subject last week, Tory strategists say the EU is a "distraction" for the prime
minister from "real concerns" about wages, mortgages and the weekly shop.

I agree - in an ideal world we wouldn't need to talk about the European Union.
Business leaders wouldn't have to choose between taking on more staff and
complying with a new EU directive on data protection. The government wouldn't
have to spend taxpayers' money on taking the EU to court over bad regulation
that will harm British competitiveness. The Labour party wouldn't have to check
before announcing a new energy policy that it might be ruled illegal by
Brussels. However, in the past week alone, all three of these situations have
arisen. They demonstrate why any debate on the future of Britain must include a
proper discussion about the EU's impact on our country.

The renegotiation by Harold Wilson, the Labour prime minister, with the European
Economic Community in 1974-5 and the 1975 referendum on Britain's membership
provide us with a useful comparison for the present day. The campaign group
Business for Britain has conducted a historical analysis using declassified
documents from the national archives and new interviews with senior figures
involved in 1975 to draw out the lessons of history for Cameron's planned
renegotiation in the coming months and years.

The parallels between 1975 and today are clear. Then, as now, the debate on
Europe was taking place in a period of economic uncertainty. Like Cameron,
Wilson faced a party divided on the issue of Europe and, while he shied away
from advocating leaving, he publicly acknowledged that there were serious
shortcomings with the European project. And, as today, the polls in the early
1970s showed a majority of the British people were in favour of getting a better
deal, or else ending our European membership.

The most important similarity between 1975 and 2013, however, is the continued
presence of a powerful bureaucracy in Whitehall, in Brussels and throughout the
UK diplomatic corps with an interest in preventing ministers from rocking the
boat in European affairs. In 1974-5, these officials took control of the
negotiations, excluding politicians, such as Tony Benn, the then industry
secretary, who were pushing for significant changes. As senior figures have
admitted to Oliver Lewis, the paper's author, the bureaucracy took advantage of
a divided government to mitigate the scale of the renegotiation, convincing
politicians that substantial change was not necessary. Even though Wilson had
promised a "fundamental renegotiation of the terms of entry" in the Labour
manifesto of 1974, officials in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office were able to
draft a renegotiation that did little, while creating the illusion that a
substantial transfer of powers had taken place.

The opportunity remains for a similar cabal of self-interested civil servants
and career diplomats to decide the terms and success of today's renegotiation.
Already figures involved in the 1975 renegotiation are warning that "normal
European business" could be presented to the British public as being "something
that is very good and in our interest", even if it didn't change the terms of
Britain's EU membership.

To combat this, Business for Britain has proposed a number of simple checks and
balances. To start, voters need an informed view from which to judge the success
of the renegotiation. This doesn't mean spelling out the red lines, but does
require more information on what changes the government will seek to secure.
Second, to achieve lasting and effective change, the government must be prepared
to demand that the European treaties be reopened - something Cameron rightly
recognised in his speech in January. Parliament is a more forceful and
independent institution than it was in the 1970s, so it should play a key part
in the scrutiny and assessment of today's renegotiation. Finally, it is vital
that a range of voices is brought into the process of determining what changes
are needed.

Had Wilson achieved the changes set out in his manifesto, it is arguable that
Britain would not be seeking to redress the imbalance in our relationship with
the EU today. Instead, preoccupied with a divided party and a sluggish economy
and unwilling to fight the pro-Europe bureaucracy, Wilson surrendered to a
half-baked renegotiation that failed to achieve any meaningful changes in
Britain's favour.

Almost 40 years later, Cameron has taken the bold but necessary step of
reversing Wilson's failure. The crisis in the eurozone and a growing disconnect
between the peoples of Europe and the EU has meant that, in 2013, the leaders of
Europe are looking to embed the continent in banking, fiscal and possibly full
political union. It is clear that the British people do not want their country
to be part of this new movement towards federalism.

There is big support in the country for getting a better deal from the EU and,
with the benefit of an economic and political environment in flux and a less
rushed timetable for reform, Britain is primed to achieve the sort of
renegotiation that Wilson promised, but ultimately failed to deliver.

Matthew Elliott is chief executive of Business for Britain,
www.businessforbritain.org

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

One-judgment rule ain't broke, so don't use referendum to fix it

BYLINE: PAUL ANTHONY McDERMOTT

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 884 words


With a fortnight to go to the referendums, I can barely contain my excitement.
At a time of economic collapse and rising social problems the entire voting
population is being urged to come out and express a view on the pressing issue
as to whether or not the Supreme Court should deliver more than one judgment
when legislation is challenged.

Apparently there is a groundswell of citizens who do not think there are enough
judgments to read, and who want extra ones for the weekend. In the same way that
some people like to buy two newspapers on a Sunday, you will now be able to read
five judgments instead of one if you want to know what the Supreme Court thinks
of certain laws. Lovers of the rainforests may need some convincing on why this
avalanche of extra paper is necessary.

One of the referendums on October 4 is called the Court of Appeal Referendum.
Those of you who possess either a doctorate in law or merely an ability to read
may have spotted this title is incorrect, since the one-judgment rule relates to
the Supreme Court. Like a pork barrel law in America, something is being snuck
into the referendum that is unconnected with its stated subject matter but to
which you cannot vote No if you want to say Yes to the new Court of Appeal.

The Referendum Commission's information booklet provides little enlightenment.
Its terse 12-line explanation gives no indication of why the one-judgment rule
was added to the Irish constitution in 1941, or why someone has now decided it
should be thrown overboard. Surely when the public are invited to remove a
constitutional principle that has existed for 70 years they are entitled to some
real information? The one-judgment rule forces the Supreme Court to reach a
consensus and ensures certainty. Eamon de Valera, the then taoiseach, clearly
believed the more definitive a court decision the better.

Suppose a new law requires motorists to drive on the right-hand side of the
road. If someone challenges it, the Supreme Court must issue a single judgment
declaring the law is either valid or invalid. However, if the October 4
referendum is passed, then three judges could say the law is valid and two could
say it is invalid, and all five could offer different reasons for their
judgments. You might be tempted to drive down the middle of the road on the
basis that the Supreme Court is hopelessly divided on the issue.

The rule also protects the Supreme Court from improper pressure. Significant
political controversy could arise if it struck down a law at the centre of a new
Programme for Government. The one-judgment rule means no one knows which judges
supported the law and which condemned it. This is an essential protection in
times of turmoil. When the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the
Offences Against the State (Amendment) Bill in 1940 one politician caused
consternation by speculating on which judges had dissented.

Sometimes in life it is good to get a single ruling. The 10 commandments would
have carried less weight if the drafting committee disclosed there was a
dissenting view on the 10th commandment, which was that coveting your
neighbour's house may be permissible during a property boom.

The oracle at Delphi would have been consulted with less enthusiasm by the
ancient Greeks if she prophesied that your next sea voyage would probably bring
you happiness and riches, but one dissenting view reckoned you would sink
without trace the moment you left port.

One advantage of dissenting judgments is that they can provide a stepping stone
for the development of the law. A famous example is the Dred Scott decision in
1857 where the US Supreme Court held that African-Americans could not be
citizens and had no standing to sue in federal court. Two judges dissented, and
set a template for subsequent dissenting judgments in the fight for civil
liberties.

The purpose of abolishing the one-judgment rule is to allow the Supreme Court to
do more work. The purpose of creating the new Court of Appeal is to allow the
Supreme Court to do less. Looked at that way, the two changes may simply cancel
each other out. Against this backdrop the public may decide to do less written
work itself by not bothering to vote.

Creating a new Court of Appeal is expensive and requires a bewildering number of
changes to the Irish constitution. Adding yet another layer of courts is more
likely to increase rather than decrease costs and delays.

The referendum is part of a wider trend in society which reckons that anything
that comes from the past is bad whereas anything new is good. Our constitution
has safely steered us through a world war and domestic terrorism, not to mention
the trauma of joining the EU and winning the Eurovision Song Contest three times
in a row. Its drafters understood that Ireland would change over the decades,
but some founding principles were needed that were above day-to-day fashions.

Politicians now view Bunreacht na hEireann as a political football and think you
can get re-elected by boasting about how much you kicked it around. It remains
to be seen whether the public shares their enthusiasm for this new sport.

In the meantime, if Mayo lose the All Ireland Final today due to a referee's
decision, it will be of little consolation to them to know one of the umpires
had a dissenting view.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

If Kenny can't take on Martin, how can he handle the troika?

BYLINE: MATT COOPER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1085 words


Let's be honest: a live television debate between Enda Kenny and Fianna Fail's
Micheál Martin on the referendum to abolish the Seanad doesn't sound like
riveting viewing. If I didn't have to watch such an event for work purposes, I'm
not sure I'd be bothered to tune in.

Enthusiastic adherents on the Yes and No sides of the argument might get excited
about the points scored, but would be unlikely to change their voting intentions
as a result. A Kenny-Martin debate might be useful in persuading some of the
undecided, but it is not being unduly cynical to suggest that public interest in
the future of the Seanad is low and this would surely be reflected in a
relatively small television audience.

A plague on their second house seems to be the prevailing public attitude
towards politicians these days, and the attitude towards Dail Eireann is not
much better. Why spend money we haven't got keeping pigs at the political
trough? After all, before Kenny began his crusade to abolish the Seanad, opinion
polls showed many people were unaware of its existence, never mind holding an
opinion on its role in our democracy.

As it happens, we're not going to get that head-to-head because Kenny is ducking
the challenge set by Martin. Fianna Fail, naturally, is making hay with the fact
that the taoiseach is unwilling to debate outside the Dail chamber, but nobody
else seems too exercised about Fianna Fail not getting its match-up. That's
understandable. Don't we hear enough already from Fianna Fail on every other
subject? Shouldn't Martin be talking about jobs for ordinary people, not for an
expensive and ineffectual elite elected by a privileged minority? The more
serious issue is that Kenny's decision to duck out of yet another debate
suggests weakness on his part. Unless it takes place in a forum where he is in
control, the Fine Gael leader consistently declines invitations to talk about
the most serious issues affecting the country. The taoiseach's latest vow of
silence is particularly unforgivable given that Seanad abolition is his own big
idea; proof, apparently, that he is bold and imaginative. We have been told that
Kenny thought up this scheme all on his own before unveiling to it to horrified
Fine Gael colleagues who now have to pretend they love the idea. Worse, they
have to lobby for the Seanad's abolition while their leader remains close to
silent on the matter. I say "close" because Kenny will talk about the referendum
in controlled press conferences and in the Dail. The debate in the chamber, no
doubt, will be restricted to leaders' questions, as the legislation promoting
the referendum took just one hour to get through.

The real problem, of course, is that Kenny's handlers do not trust him to
perform well on live television and he probably doesn't trust himself either.
His previous performances have been wooden, clichéd, scripted, and vulnerable to
the unexpected. His collapse when debating Bertie Ahern in the 2007 general
election debate, in circumstances where he should have won easily, left scars
that still haven't healed.

Martin is well capable of beating Kenny up verbally, as he has proven in the
Dail on many occasions. However when it happens in the chamber few people notice
because television and radio reports provide only soundbites, and newspapers
reproduce only the juiciest quotes. While this doesn't do Kenny much good, it
doesn't do as much damage as prolonged exposure in a live TV debate.

Kenny didn't engage in head-to-head television debates during the 2011 general
election campaign, preferring the safety of numbers in the sessions involving
all party leaders. That suited the Fine Gael handlers, and they're probably
satisfied they don't need to put their man out on his own to win this referendum
either.

That's fine for now, but what if later polls show the referendum in danger of
being lost? Would the handlers risk wheeling out Kenny in such circumstances?
Proposing to abolish the Upper House of our parliamentary system is a landmark
reform and you might think that the taoiseach of the day would want to argue the
point in the widest public forums available.

While the strategy raises legitimate questions about Kenny's capabilities, does
it matter whether or not he is capable of taking part in a debate? His
supporters insist it's not necessarily part of the job. Delivering pithy lines
and smacking put-downs isn't good leadership either. Just ask Brian Cowen (who
might answer, but only as gaeilge).

Ducking out of the debate highlights again that Kenny is incapable of thinking
on his feet and that, faced with sharper intellects, just doesn't have the
smarts to respond if it isn't in the script. It makes you wonder - and worried -
how he handles high pressure situations, such as EU leader summits, where
everyone is expected to be working at the top of their game.

Kenny's supporters have consistently ignored this weakness, preferring to hype
his perceived strengths. That might impress political insiders, but not so the
voters. Do they really care that Kenny was considered a good chairman of
meetings during the EU presidency, for example? His ability to manage a meeting
didn't do us any good when it came to reducing the financial burden imposed by
the bailout troika. Indeed, leaked reports from Kenny's first summit suggested
his counterparts were less than impressed by his (presumably scripted) arguments
seeking debt relief. He got beaten around the place when he stepped up to the
heavyweight division and has been noticeably accommodating to his EU colleagues
ever since.

Now that we are about halfway through the intended life of this government, it
is fair to put Kenny under the closest scrutiny. His reluctance to put himself
out in front of the cameras or give detailed interviews doesn't help the process
of evaluation. This is presumably what his handlers have in mind. The only
positive to be taken from Kenny's reluctance to engage with Martin on television
is the damage that would be inflicted on the nation's confidence if our leader
put in another performance like the shambles that was his debate with Ahern six
years ago.

Losing this referendum, unlikely as it seems, would not be fatal to Kenny's
position as leader of Fine Gael or as taoiseach but it would weaken public
perception of him and, within Fine Gael, would raise serious and longterm
questions about his political judgment.

Justine McCarthy is away matt.cooper@sunday-times.ie

'HIS PREVIOUS PERFORMANCES HAVE BEEN WOODEN, CLICHED AND SCRIPTED'

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Sunday Times Magazine;
SPECIAL ISSUE: EUROPE

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 430 words


LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR - until you end up paying their bills.

Our relationship with Europe has always been tricky. We might adore paella,
prosecco and lavender-filled fields, but less so the Common Agricultural Policy,
fish quotas and fatcats. With UKIP stirring the pot, and a referendum looming,
this special issue looks at that complex relationship - and whether Europe will
ever be truly united

MINUTE MAG

5 Krissi Murison recalls the day she nearly wor

ked as a stripper in Malaga

The God of Small Things takes a siesta. To increase his productivity, of course

Spot the Difference Spain honours the Tories: John Major v Mrs Thatcher

7 Witter

Henning Wehn, German comic

8 Small Ads, Big Story

The man selling Soviet gas masks for Hallowe'en

10 Relative Values

The Edge of U2, and his cousin Ciara, who works for Mencap

62 Life in the Day

Constantina Grammenou

FEATURES

12 The 'fruitcake' finds his voice

UKIP leader Nigel Farage lets rip again

19 Should we stay or should we go?

The pros and cons of quitting the EU

20 Feisty lady

Valérie Trierweiler, first lady of France, talks to John Follain about following
in Carla Bruni's footsteps and taking advice from Michelle Obama

38 The new map of Europe

Will Britain fail where Switzerland succeeded? And will they miss us when we're
gone? Let's ask the Swiss

SPECTRUM

27 Rainbow warrior Angela Merkel looks set for a third term: what colours will
she wear next? Plus: the Romanians in Paris who are building mansions back home;
the excesses of Marbella and Puerto Banus - playgrounds of the rich and gaudy

THE DISH

47 Doing the continental

Gizzi Erskine cooks up traditional Portuguese delights, while Bob Tyrer explores
the local wine; AA Gill mourns the loss of the charming Provençal bistro; Alice
Lascelles discovers what Berlin's bartenders are shaking and stirring

CONTRIBUTORS

DOMINIC LAWSON "David Cameron says if Britain leaves the EU, we'll become 'a
sort of Greater Switzerland'. I travelled there to see what that might mean."
(p38)

LYNN BARBER meets Nigel Farage. "He seems to be surviving the summer attacks on
UKIP with his usual bounce. He is a hard man to dislike, however much you might
dislike his party." (p12)

SAMUEL ARANDA photographed Marbella. "It was surprising to see this level of
luxury in Spain - and frustrating to see the gap between rich and poor is
growing." (Spectrum)

ONLINE / IPAD / TABLETS

Don't miss: Rod Liddle's interview with Nigel Farage, whom he crowned Man of the
Year.

Follow us on Twitter @TheSTMagazine and Facebook, and at
www.thesundaytimes.co.uk/ magazine. Read our iPad and Android tablets free with
your subscription

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SHOULD WE STAY OR SHOULD WE GO?;
It's the eternal question, but what's the answer? Kathryn Cooper, economics
correspondent, weighs the pros and cons of leaving Europe THE FACTS OF THE
MATTER

BYLINE: Kathryn Cooper

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 851 words


IN, OUT...

for decades we've been shaking it all about. The question of Britain's
relationship with Europe has preoccupied our politicians ever since President de
Gaulle first sneered an imperious "Non!" to British entry to the Common Market
in 1963. Disputes over Europe have since derailed governments and ended
political careers, while the public has been wound up by scandals involving
butter mountains, fish wars and bureaucracy factories - not all apocryphal. With
a possible referendum on Europe looming - the first since the vote to remain
"in" in 1975 - the coalition remains divided on the issue. If we decide to cut
our ties, the economy could shrink by as much as £27bn, or more than 2% of GDP,
according to the National Institute for Economic and Social Research. The
consensus among economists and industry seems largely pro-membership, with
caveats, but it's not that simple. It never is, is it?

IN

MORE JOBS AND INVESTMENT

The total stock of investment into Britain by foreign companies, which stood at
£770bn in 2011, is the second largest in the world, behind America. EU
membership is one reason why Chinese and Japanese firms choose to locate here:
we're their gateway to the single market. The Japanese government recently
warned that tens of thousands of British jobs could be at stake if the UK
withdrew from the Union. In a memo to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, it
pointed out that more than 1,300 Japanese companies have invested in the UK,
creating about 130,000 jobs.

EXODUS FROM THE CITY

Banks would pull their European headquarters out of the City of London if
Britain left the EU, the bosses of Goldman Sachs have just warned. The American
investment bank, which houses 6,000 of its 7,000-strong European workforce in
the capital, said it would relocate swathes of staff to the continent if a
referendum went in favour of the UK quitting the EU. London's financial centre
has become the global capital for European money-market trading. This has made
it a magnet for international investment banks including Goldman, but also
continental giants such as Germany's Deutsche Bank and France's BNP Paribas. The
loss of European banks from the City would be a huge blow to the economy, given
financial services contribute about 10% of the country's total economic output,
according to the financial-services body THECITYUK. Anti-Europeans, meanwhile,
say that so many well-paid foreigners have artificially driven up London house
prices.

MEMBERSHIP KEEPS DOWN PRICES

The EU, taken as a group, is by far Britain's most important trading partner,
accounting for 46% of goods and services exports (£224bn) and 51% of imports
(£265bn) in 2012, according to House of Commons research. The share of British
exports going to the EU is declining, partly as a result of the eurozone crisis,
but it is still of huge importance to the country. The benefit of being in the
EU is members are part of a customs union, with no tariffs on goods moving
between member states, and a common tariff applied to goods from outside the EU.
If we left, we'd end up paying more for almost everything - initially at least.
However, as Dominic Lawson points out on pages 38-43, we could remain in the
European Free Trade Association, like Switzerland.

STRONGER FROM WITHIN

Outside the EU, Britain might lose its influence on European policy, which might
damage the economy. The European Central Bank, backed by France and Germany, is
trying to pass legislation that would require clearing houses dealing in
significant volumes of eurodenominated transactions to be located within the
euro area. Britain is currently challenging this, as it would severely threaten
the City, at the European Court of Justice on the grounds that it contravenes
single-market principles. But outside the EU, we wouldn't have any degree of
clout.

OUT

AN END TO BUREAUCRACY

Complying with EU regulations costs Britain billions a year, according to the
first official audit of the cost of membership released by William Hague, the
foreign secretary, this summer. More than 400 new laws have been passed by the
European parliament since the coalition formed three years ago; legislation
alone has cost British business £676m a year.

FREE TO NEGOTIATE OUR OWN ROLE IN THE WORLD

Supporters of an EU exit argue it would leave us free to negotiate our own
free-trade agreements. The EU has so far failed to secure any preferential trade
agreements with Brazil, India or China; whether Britain would do better alone is
open to question.

LOWER CONTRIBUTIONS

The British government contributed £10bn to the EU in 2012, net of receipts -
about 1.5% of total public expenditure and equivalent to almost 0.7% of GDP,
according to the House of Commons. The UK has been a net contributor to the EU
budget in 39 out of its 40 years of membership (the exception being 1975),
contributing much more than it gets back.

LOWER FOOD PRICES

The EU's common agricultural policy, which pays billions in subsidies to
farmers, is widely credited with inflating food prices. Lower prices are welcome
at a time when families, in particular, face rapidly inflating food bills

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HENNING WEHN;
WITTER

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 367 words


Expatriate German Comedian, 39, on Teutonic 'humour' and Euro '96 THE WORLD'S
FASTEST INTERVIEW 140 CHARACTERS MAX PER ANSWER o Witter: What's happening? HW:
I'm sitting on the bed.

o What else? Planning to annexe Poland? Hold your local Greek restaurant to
ransom? Bet you're tired of all those stereotypes... The Second World War ended
only 68 years ago. I'm sure there's much more mileage in all those hilarious
quips.

o Do your compatriots regard you as a traitor? Your persona is itself a tad
stereotypical.

Germans in Germany don't know who I am.

Germans who have been living in Britain for some time largely like what I do, I
think.

o Does Angela Merkel have as much comic potential as Gerhard Schröder? I'm not
sure Schröder had much comic potential, except for when he claimed not to have
dyed his hair. He even went to court to make his point. o And Merkel? Merkel
can't do that: she's too busy planning the annexation of Poland and holding her
local Greek restaurant to ransom.

o Is German humour an acquired taste? As the saying goes, it's no laughing
matter. As exemplified by this joke: Treffen sich zwei Jäger im Wald. Beide tot.

o Two hunters meet in the woods. Both die? HAHAHAHAHAHAHA! o Can you imagine a
wave of German comedians coming over here to follow in your footsteps? It's more
likely that Germans already living in Britain start taking it up as a hobby.
That's how I got started in 2003, anyway.

o Does comedy keep you in bratwurst? Most comedians live on the breadline. I
make ends meet by selling my DVDs on my website.

o Do you support the concept of a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU?
It might be good if the British electorate sent out a clear pro-European
message. That would put all swivel-eyed loonies in their place. o Have you met
any anti-German hostility here? The days of Euro '96, with German-made cars
being smashed up, have gone. A shame: our manufacturers could do with some extra
business. o Is Britain ready for a German stand-up with a primetime TV slot?
Absolutely. Ideally a pro-European Westphalian with a cockney twang. The act I
have in mind could then stop banging on about his DVDs s Interview: Mark Edmonds
Wehn sells his DVDs at henningwehn.de

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE NEW MAP OF EUROPE;
With an EU referendum likely, how would a separate Britain fit in (or out) with
the rest of the continent? Dominic Lawson travelled to Switzerland to see how
they get by

BYLINE: Dominic Lawson

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 38,39,40,41,42,43

LENGTH: 3209 words


When David Cameron pledged to offer the people of Britain an "in-or-out"
referendum on our membership of the EU, he summed up the outcome he didn't want
as follows: "If your vision of Britain is that we should just withdraw and
become a sort of greater Switzerland, I think that would be a complete denial of
our national interests."

Yet the Eurosceptics see Switzerland as exactly the model to follow. Outside the
EU it has thrived, with the lowest unemployment rate on the continent - and in
July it signed a trailblazing free-trade deal with China.

Unlike Norway (often cited as the other alternative model for Britain),
Switzerland is not even a member of the European Economic Area, the so-called
halfway house (in the European single market but outside the Common Agricultural
Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy).

If you enter this country from overseas you will notice that the sign "For
Europeans" at passport control states: "British, EU and EEA citizens." Then in
the line underneath it has the single word: "Switzerland".

Splendid isolation, or not so splendid, depending on your point of view.

This was not supposed to happen. Twentyone years ago Switzerland held a
referendum over entry into the EEA, as a step towards full membership of the EU.
To general astonishment the Swiss people voted "no", albeit by the tiniest of
margins (50.3% to 49.7%). It is a moment Dominik Furgler remembers better than
most of his countrymen. Now Switzerland's ambassador in London, this lean,
athletic-looking man had in 1993 taken up a position as head of information in
the country's EU integration office and suddenly found that his new job had been
made almost redundant by the electorate. As he recalled to me, in Switzerland's
functional embassy in a not especially smart area near London's Baker Street:
"The integration office was under two ministers, one for the economy, one for
foreign affairs, and they were both shocked. The economic minister, Jean-Pascal
Delamuraz, was bitter, very bitter... he felt something terrible had happened,
that this would really damage the country."

If there was one man responsible for this seismic shock to the political
establishment, it was Christoph Blocher. Now 72, Blocher - a small man with a
powerful handshake - is leader of the nationalist wing of the Swiss People's
Party. He has a talent for blunt public speaking; though his critics have
described him as a xenophobic demagogue: in the country's 2007 general election
he ran a poster campaign showing three white Swiss sheep kicking a bad black
foreign sheep out of the country. One of 11 children of a pastor, Blocher is
also a self-made billionaire, having built up a single factory into a
multinational chemicals business. He is a Swiss amalgam of the wealth of the
late Referendum party founder, Jimmy Goldsmith, and the oratorical skills of
Nigel Farage.

Blocher almost never gives interviews to the foreign press but agreed to see me
in his modest office, which is almost next-door to a hairdresser's, 45 minutes'
drive from the centre of Zurich. (In fact it was so modest that I wondered if I
had come to the right place.)

Back in 1992 Blocher had personally bankrolled the "no to the EEA" campaign and
beams when I ask him to recall that episode. "It was not the best investment for
me personally, but the best for Switzerland. The old political class, the
government, the parliament, the business organisations, the unions, they were
all for entry." And why was that? "They were afraid that we were always too
small as a nation and that it would be better to be part of something bigger.
And perhaps the politicians thought they would have more power. Also such people
are fascinated by something big, constructing a Europe from the North Pole to
Sicily, from the Urals to Great Britain. The politicians are fascinated by this
idea, but the people are not so fascinated.

"Here we have direct democracy, through the cantons, and the Swiss people want
to keep that. They do not want to be under the control of foreign judges or a
foreign political establishment. You must remember the origins of the Swiss
state, 722 years ago - farmers in the mountains and so on saying, 'We want our
own liberty.' We never had a king; we governed ourselves as people. We were the
first country in Europe to have one man, one vote, guaranteed by constitution."

Switzerland's cantonal system - buttressed by a unique and active system of
referendums that can be triggered by petitions containing 50,000 signatures
(about 1% of the electorate) - is most unlike the much more centralised
Westminster model. Yet what the nation has in common with Britain is an ancient,
stable and continuous national democracy; this is quite different from countries
such as Germany, Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece, whose relatively short
experience of democracy has been blighted by fascism and warfare, and for whom
the European Union and peaceful liberty are inextricably linked rather than
separate concepts.

Blocher's fervent belief in national selfdetermination means he has consistently
declined requests to speak in Britain about the issue of EU membership in the
run-up to the referendum Cameron has pledged by 2017 - assuming the
Conservatives are in a position to deliver it. "A lot of people in your country
have said, come and speak to us. I say no: you must decide for yourself what is
best for you."

Blocher seemed almost oblivious to the rise of UKIP. "I have heard of it but I
don't... That is a new party now?" He would not specifically say how Britons
should vote in a future EU referendum, but added: "Generally, I would say 'Get
out.' You will have more opportunities, more flexibility, when you are not in a
centralised organisation. So many countries with so many different mentalities
under one roof cannot function. The European Union is simply the wrong
intellectual construct."

And then, with a mischievous smile, Blocher tells me that when he sat next to
the former German chancellor Helmut Kohl at a big business dinner many years
ago, the politician whose career was more than any other associated with the
ideal of European political union, confided to him: "If I were Swiss, I'd be on
your side of the argument." Then Kohl added: "But you must understand that we
would like you to be a member. We'd like to have another country with money."

Blocher bursts into laughter at the memory of this encounter. But it would not
seem so funny to British eurosceptics: they point out that Britain's annual net
contributions to the EU budget run at over £8bn. While wealthy Switzerland, in
return for selective facilitated access to the single market, has paid out a
grand total of £860m over the past five years, and retains the right to control
how its aid to the poorer EU countries is spent on the ground, rather than
allowing it to be channelled through the Brussels bureaucracy.

Such considerations do not sway Christa SMarkwalder from her conviction that
Switzerland made a terrible mistake in staying aloof from the European Union.

The 38-year-old, a Liberal Democratic Party representative for Berne in the
Swiss parliament, is also the president of the country's New European Movement.
We meet in an Italian restaurant on the shores of Lake Zurich. She asks if I
mind if she smokes - one of the telling little differences in Switzerland is
that its anti-smoking laws are less restricting than we have become used to.
Bars and restaurants can have smoking in separate, ventilated rooms, and in
Zurich airport I notice a couple of Winston Smoking Lounges - a clear practical
demonstration of how the Swiss manage to remain libertarian (in a most
commercial way) within what is generally seen as a highly conformist culture.

Happily puffing away, the elegant Markwalder concedes that "our macroeconomic
performance has indeed been very good for many years. We have had low youth
unemployment, low taxes, low public debts, very good competitiveness and
innovation. But the reasons for that are nothing to do with the fact that we are
an outsider from the EU. We have a good vocational training system - like
Germany - and we sorted out our finances before the economic crisis of 2008."

But she rejects the whole idea that Switzerland has all the benefits of trade
with Europe without making substantial legislative concessions to Brussels: "I
would challenge the argument that Switzerland has kept its sovereignty. Our
parliamentary legislation is as influenced by EU legislation as it is in member
states, such as yours. So I would like Switzerland to be at the table when
important decisions for these countries are taken. And we aren't. There is no
Swiss representation in the EU commission, in the EU parliament, or in the
European Court of Justice. We are just outside, institutionally excluded. And
yet most of our laws are very much in line with European single-market
legislation, because we do not want to create new hurdles for market access."

I point out to Markwalder that since British ministers complain that even within
the EU's councils we don't seem to be able to stop mounds of legislation
imposing new regulatory burdens on domestic businesses, how much influence would
the much smaller nation of Switzerland have, once "at the table" in Brussels?
"But we Swiss should understand how this can work. We are a federation of 26
cantons, some of them much smaller than others. Yet none of the smaller ones
would say that because we are not one of the biggest we should not bother to
send anyone to the national parliament. And we are a country with four different
languages and very different cultures. If you compare two citizens, say from
Apenzell and Geneva, it's a different world. But it works."

For all her enthusiasm, Markwalder concedes that the argument for Swiss entry
into the EU has scarcely ever been less popular in her country. A recent opinion
poll had a mere 6% of the country supporting entry, and only 10% saying that the
country should abandon its policy of negotiating hundreds of piecemeal bilateral
trading deals with the EU, a strategy begun in an ad hoc fashion after the Swiss
voted "no" in the 1992 referendum.

So the member for Berne answers my question about whether there is any chance
that the Swiss people will change their minds about EU membership with a rueful
smile: "Well, at the moment it's hopeless, we will never win a popular vote on
it." Yet she warns against the idea that Britain, if its own people vote to
leave the EU in a future referendum, would find life as congenial as the Swiss
seem to find it outside the club.

"My advice is: don't compare Switzerland's situation with the British one. Don't
make the mistake of thinking that leaving the EU and trying to start bilateral
trade negotiations would be just like it was for us after 1992. For a start, we
didn't walk out of the EU. And for a long time after the 'no' vote, it was felt
that we might be persuaded to join. This meant that we were treated in a very
good manner, but if you just walk out, you might not get such good deals
bilaterally. I was very interested that when Prime Minister Cameron announced
his referendum he said that Switzerland will not be a role model for Britain.
Because when the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Commons came here to
Switzerland it was clear to me they thought Britain could just take over the
Swiss model of negotiating bilateral agreements bit by bit and then it's done.
But it's not. It's much more dangerous than that for you."

Wolfgang Munchau, a founder of FT Deutschland who runs www.eurointelligence.com
and describes himself as an "unrepentant EU fanatic", is less pessimistic about
Britain's chances following a referendum "no" vote. He has predicted that:
"Everything would be up for grabs. Britain can negotiate a favourable or a
non-favourable deal. My best guess is that an exit would put Britain in a
similar situation to Switzerland, which would not exactly be an economic
disaster. The UK is a large economy with a small industrial base. For such a
country the regulatory burden of the single market outweighs the benefits. There
may be reasons why the UK may wish to remain a member of the EU, but whatever
they are, they are not economic."

A similar argument was put to me by Beat Kappeler, in the headspinning
surroundings of the Jules Verne Bar, a watering hole with a superb panoramic
view of Zurich's old town. The 67-year-old Kappeler is now known as
Switzerland's sharpest newspaper columnist, but from 1977 to 1992 he was
secretary of the Swiss Federation of Trade Unions, so has experience of the
practical world of negotiations. As he surveys the view, Kappeler declares that
he had been in favour of EU membership up until the Maastricht Treaty, when he
realised "how the EU really functions, how it has become oppressive". And he
dismisses Christa Markwalder's claim that Switzerland could have significant
policy-making influence within the EU: "That's ridiculous. We'd just discover in
the morning newspapers what Germany and France arranged the day before."

I'd thought it counterintuitive that a country divided between speakers of three
mainstream European languages could have such an aversion to EU membership.
Kappeler explained the reason: "Whatever our internal differences, the last
thing the German-speaking Swiss want is to be taken as German, the
French-speaking as French, the Italianspeaking as Italians. Switzerland has a
specifically negative character: we are not Germans, we are not French, we are
not Italians." According to Kappeler, the British and the Swiss are also very
similar in being "utilitarian people. With any grand idea, like the European
Union, we both always ask 'What does it cost? What, specifically, does it
actually bring?' This is an attitude that you don't find in France and you don't
find in Germany. The Germans and the French are political ideologues. It was the
English philosopher JS Mill who said that liberalism was about means, not ends;
this is the attitude of almost all Anglo-Saxon countries, and it is ours too."

Kappeler believes the Swiss would take it as a big compliment if Britain left
the EU "and it would remove the impression that we are very alone here in
central Europe. I think Switzerland and Britain can and could outside the EU
maintain a special degree of sovereignty, outside the conformity of Brussels. I
would say, dare to be different. You can have your bilateral agreements, like
Switzerland. And like us, you already have more trade with countries outside the
EU than normal European countries have. You are much more globally orientated
than France, Italy, even Germany. It's not for me to advise Britain, you have to
know yourself what to do, but I think you can leave and regain those varying
aspects of sovereignty that Switzerland has kept." Back in London, Ambassador
Furgler is the perfect diplomat, refusing to say anything in favour of Swiss
exceptionalism that might be construed as an attempt to persuade the British to
follow the Helvetian lead. "I absolutely can't advise Britain about its future
relationship with the EU. I can only speak from a Swiss perspective, not just
because we don't want to interfere, but also because I don't think that you can
directly compare the British and Swiss experiences. Ours is a very specific
model, based on our own particular circumstances."

But, I asked, what would be the reaction in Switzerland if Britain were - if he
would forgive the pun - to follow the Swiss role?

"Well, the immediate impact would be that all those against EU membership in
Switzerland would say: see, we were right. They would probably celebrate - and
drink at least a bottle of wine. But I think that a lot of us would say: 'Well,
let's just wait and see. Let's talk again in five years and see how the British
are doing.' "

Very diplomatic, ambassador. But in the meantime, we might have to make that
decision (and almost certainly so if Labour decides it can't enter the general
election campaign without matching Cameron's offer of an in-or-out referendum).
The prime minister's historic announcement was politically an attempt to
neutralise UKIP; and in turn UKIP's popular support is not so much based on a
rational assessment of the costs and benefits of being in the EU as the specific
and potentially explosive issue of immigration. The fact that as new common
citizens of the EU any number of Bulgarians and Romanians can from next year
live and work - or not work - in the UK is the sore spot that Nigel Farage hits
with the persistence of a woodpecker.

As it happens, Switzerland recently demonstrated the flexibility of its unique
arrangement with the EU over exactly this issue. When they negotiated a Freedom
of Movement treaty with the EU in 1999, the Swiss also included a "safeguard
clause" to be invoked if the annual influx from EU countries exceeded a certain
number. Immigration from Romania and Bulgaria is already severely restricted,
and in April the Swiss government announced that it would for a year cap at
2,180 the number of residence permits granted to immigrants from the eight
eastern European countries granted EU membership in 2004. The EU council of
ministers huffed and puffed, declaring it "deeply regrets that Switzerland has
unilaterally re-introduced quotas for certain categories of residence permits
for citizens of eight EU member states. The Council strongly urges Switzerland
to reverse its decision." She didn't - because she didn't have to. Whatever the
rights and wrongs (about 400,000 Swiss citizens live and work in the EU), this
unilateral decision has enabled the government in Berne, as it told Brussels, to
"make immigration more acceptable to our society".

The Swiss answer to public concern over immigration has not yet made the
headlines in the UK - but it will do once the referendum campaign gets underway,
be sure of it. In the meantime, it's worth going back to that Cameron phrase
that "If your vision of Britain is that we should just withdraw and become a
greater Switzerland, I think that would be a complete denial of our national
interests," and reading the justifying peroration that immediately preceded it:
"Engaged in the European Union, engaged in Nato, helping to sort out and solve
the problems of the Middle East. A huge investor with big influence in Africa. A
clear strategic relationship with China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia. That's how
Britain should see ourselves."

Yet with the exception of the first five words, none of those objectives are in
any way incompatible with an exit from the institutions of the EU. It would only
be necessary to change the second word - "in" - to "with". As indeed, is made
clear by the little Swiss government pamphlet I was encouraged to read before
seeing the country's ambassador here: it's entitled "Switzerland. A committed
partner with Europe."

And underneath that, the following: "Switzerland's EU policy is rooted on the
people's decision. The bilateral agreements enjoy the unfaltering approval of
the Swiss electorate."

It would be good if the same could be said of Britain's relationship with the
European Union.

THE SWISS PEOPLE VOTED NO BY THE TINIEST OF MARGINS - 50.3% TO 49.7%

'MANY SWISS WOULD SAY, LET'S SEE HOW THE BRITISH ARE DOING IN FIVE YEARS'

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PREVIOUS PAGES: THE FUTURE MAPPING COMPANY (www.FUTUREMAPS.CO.UK);
KEVIN DUTTON FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES MAGAZINE. THESE PAGES, RIGHT AND BOTTOM LEFT:
PIXSIL. BOTTOM CENTRE: REUTERS
THE POLEMICISTS Left: pro-EU campaigner Christa Markwalder, 38, believes the
Swiss made a mistake not joining - despite their robust economy. Below left: the
Swiss People's Party's Christoph THE POLEMICISTS Left: pro-EU campaigner Christa
Markwalder, 38, believes the Swiss made a mistake not joining - despite their
robust economy. Below left: the Swiss People's Party's Christoph Blocher, 72,
who bankrolled the campaign that swung the country against joining the EU. A
more recent campaign in 2007 (below right) was called "blatantly racist" by the
UN
BRANCHING OUT Above: the EU has "become oppressive", says the influential Swiss
journalist Beat Kappeler
PIXSIL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            September 8, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron and Merkel plan to axe EU chiefs

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 421 words


DAVID CAMERON and Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, have begun drawing up
plans for an assault on Brussels bureaucracy by slashing the number of European
commissioners.

According to Whitehall sources, the two leaders have told officials to start
work on a blueprint that could see the number of commissioners reduced from 28
to between six and 12.

The slimmed-down bureaucracy would, they believe, have less capacity to manage
Europe, meaning some powers could be returned to nation states.

"Britain is one of the largest countries in Europe and has powerful allies for a
serious reform agenda to make the EU function more effectively as well as to
limit the impacts of immigration," said Peter Wilding, director of British
Influence, a campaign group supporting EU membership. "What we all want to see
now is a smaller commission that works better for less money."

Foreign and Commonwealth Office officials are understood to regard some
commissioners' jobs as "jokes", created to ensure that each member state
receives the position to which it is entitled.

The initiative, which could also see new tiers of senior and junior
commissioners, is part of a deepening alliance between Britain and Germany on
reforming the EU. Last week, Cameron said he was seeking Merkel's support for
his demand that access to benefits should be curbed for immigrants from other
member states.

Britain sees scaling back the commission as vital to securing a "yes" vote in
any future referendum on membership of the EU.

The restructured commission would form part of the package that Cameron will put
to the country in 2017, if he is re-elected.

It is expected that elements of the blueprint will be put forward if Merkel is
re-elected this September and could come into force as early as 2014. The
chancellor is facing her own Eurosceptic challenge from Alternative for Germany,
a party opposed to membership of the single currency that may attract votes from
her coalition partner, the Free Democrats.

Other countries, including the Netherlands, have also come out in support of
repatriating powers, including changes to EU directives on free movement across
national borders.

Allies of reform in the commission, which has grown remorselessly as new
countries have joined the EU, are understood to have started drawing up their
own plans for reductions.

They are led by Catherine Day, the commission's Irish secretary-general, and
Robert Madelin, a senior British civil servant in Brussels.

Sexist bedfellows cast shadow over Merkel's third term, page 30

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            September 8, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron and Merkel plan to axe EU chiefs

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 421 words


DAVID CAMERON and Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, have begun drawing up
plans for an assault on Brussels bureaucracy by slashing the number of European
commissioners.

According to Whitehall sources, the two leaders have told officials to start
work on a blueprint that could see the number of commissioners reduced from 28
to between six and 12.

The slimmed-down bureaucracy would, they believe, have less capacity to manage
Europe, meaning some powers could be returned to nation states.

"Britain is one of the largest countries in Europe and has powerful allies for a
serious reform agenda to make the EU function more effectively as well as to
limit the impacts of immigration," said Peter Wilding, director of British
Influence, a campaign group supporting EU membership. "What we all want to see
now is a smaller commission that works better for less money."

Foreign and Commonwealth Office officials are understood to regard some
commissioners' jobs as "jokes", created to ensure that each member state
receives the position to which it is entitled.

The initiative, which could also see new tiers of senior and junior
commissioners, is part of a deepening alliance between Britain and Germany on
reforming the EU. Last week, Cameron said he was seeking Merkel's support for
his demand that access to benefits should be curbed for immigrants from other
member states.

Britain sees scaling back the commission as vital to securing a "yes" vote in
any future referendum on membership of the EU.

The restructured commission would form part of the package that Cameron will put
to the country in 2017, if he is re-elected.

It is expected that elements of the blueprint will be put forward if Merkel is
re-elected on September 22 and could come into force as early as 2014. The
chancellor is facing her own Eurosceptic challenge from Alternative for Germany,
a party opposed to membership of the single currency that may attract votes from
her coalition partner, the Free Democrats.

Other countries, including the Netherlands, have also come out in support of
repatriating powers, including changes to EU directives on free movement across
national borders.

Allies of reform in the commission, which has grown remorselessly as new
countries have joined the EU, are understood to have started drawing up their
own plans for reductions.

They are led by Catherine Day, the commission's Irish secretary-general, and
Robert Madelin, a senior British civil servant in Brussels.

Sexist bedfellows cast shadow over Merkel's third term, page 30

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

James Wharton, the Tory [...]

BYLINE: JAMES GILLESPIE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 92 words


? James Wharton, the Tory backbencher whose private member's bill calling for an
EU referendum has won government support, is not a man to take his campaign
lightly. While party leaders clatter off in their Birkenstocks to the best that
Europe (or Cornwall) has to offer, Wharton is having none of it. He has opted to
holiday among the elegant cities and rolling landscapes of ... Albania.

Although the country has little, if anything, to offer tourists, it does have
one thing in its favour: it is not a member of the EU. Home from home for
Wharton, then.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Senators: give us (EURO)300,000 before axe falls;
Senators' (EURO)300,000 claim

BYLINE: Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 785 words


SENATORS have asked the government for one-off payments worth (EURO)300,000 in
the form of parliamentary allowances just six weeks before a referendum to
determine the future of the Seanad.

Members of the upper house have appealed to Brendan Howlin, the public
expenditure minister, for funding to open personal offices in their home towns
even though they do not have geographical constituencies.

It is the second time in five years that senators have sought the allowance. The
last claim was rejected by the late Brian Lenihan, who was finance minister from
2008 to 2011.

Senators have not received funding for constituency offices in the past because
it was assumed they did not need facilities outside Leinster House. However,
many senators - particularly those who plan to run for the Dail - have local
operations and hold constituency clinics similar to those run by TDs. The claim
for a new office allowance is made in a submission by the Oireachtas Committee
on Procedure and Privileges (CPP) to Howlin, and was received in the past three
www.weeks.No amount for the senators' allowance was specified, but the claim
could cost up to (EURO)300,000 in set-up costs if granted, and several thousand
euros per senator per year in running costs thereafter.

Dail deputies are entitled to claim up to (EURO)8,000 in one-off grants for
setting up a constituency office and can claim back a range of other office
expenses within their annual public representation allowance (PRA) of
(EURO)20,350. All PRA claims must be fully vouched for by production of invoices
and receipts.

If granted, senators could expect to get set-up grants of about (EURO)5,000, as
Seanad allowances run at about two-thirds the level of Dail entitlements, and
the right to claim back rent, rates and energy bills, and the cost of furniture,
office technology and signage every year.

One senior Oireachtas member said: "A group of senators met Brian Lenihan when
he was minister for finance and made a case for the office allowance but didn't
get anywhere.

Lenihan asked them, 'How can you have a constituency office? Ireland is your
constituency.' He showed them the door and I'd be surprised if Howlin did
anything else in the current climate."

Howlin declined to comment on the submission from a subcommittee of CPP. The
Department of Public Expenditure and Reform confirmed he had "recently received
a letter from the CPP and the Joint subcommittee on Administration (JAC)
regarding Oireachtas expenses allowances, which will be considered".

CPP sources say the Seanad claim was one of three proposals made to Howlin's
office for inclusion in new legislation on Oireachtas expenses due this autumn.
The Oireachtas Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Bill 2013 will
Continued on page 2 ? ? WW

? Continued from page 1 incorporate Howlin's plan to make independent TDs
account for how they spend the (EURO)47,000 per annum they each receive under
the leaders' allowance scheme.

Howlin cut Oireachtas travel and expense allowances, and the party leaders'
allowance, by 10% in last year's budget but said he would consult the Oireachtas
on other expenses issues. The letter from CPP's subcommittee is part of that
process. Howlin has already brought the draft heads of the Oireachtas
Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Bill 2013 to government and
the legislation has now been referred to the attorney-general's office for
drafting. Further elements may still be added to the bill based on the CPP
submission, but a number of senior Oireachtas sources doubted the senators'
claim for office allowances would succeed.

TDs are currently allowed to claim up to (EURO)3,000 worth of advertising costs
within their (EURO)20,350 PRA, but they can claim for ads only in established
local and national media outlets. The committee has asked government to allow
TDs to claim the cost of advertising in sports club magazines, school calendars
and other community platforms.

CPP also raised a claim made by the technical group in the Dail for staff to
service its administrative needs. Independent deputies Catherine Murphy and
Stephen Donnelly argued earlier this year that Fianna Fail got 24 support staff
but the technical group did not qualify as it was not a political party.

Just 46 of the 60 senators turned up last week when the Seanad interrupted its
summer recess for an emergency sitting to discuss an EU directive on organ
donation. A Fianna Fail motion was defeated only with the casting vote of Paddy
Burke, the cathaoirleach, after government and opposition tied 22-22. Marc
MacSharry, the Fianna Fail health spokesman, was criticised for flying out on a
family holiday hours before the vote.

? Continued from page 1 [...]

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

James Wharton, the Tory [...];
ATTICUS

BYLINE: JAMES GILLESPIE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 92 words


James Wharton, the Tory backbencher whose private member's bill calling for an
EU referendum has won government support, is not a man to take his campaign
lightly. While party leaders clatter off in their Birkenstocks to the best that
Europe (or Cornwall) has to offer, Wharton is having none of it. He has opted to
holiday among the elegant cities and rolling landscapes of ... Albania.

Although the country has little, if anything, to offer tourists, it does have
one thing in its favour: it is not a member of the EU. Home from home for
Wharton, then.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 18, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Time to take a sober look at TDs' tired thinking

BYLINE: STEPHEN O'BRIEN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1087 words


The silly season will come to a shuddering halt in barely a fortnight's time.
September promises a burst of political activity as the government attempts to
shape a budget and scrap the Seanad in the space of just six weeks.

Precious little work has been done on either of these political tasks to date,
though the Seanad plebiscite takes place on October 4 (not to mention the
referendum on creating a new court of appeal) and budget day has been brought
forward almost two months to October 15.

The demands of Ireland's presidency of the EU, which concluded in June, and the
intense political manoeuvring to secure the passage of abortion legislation in
July soaked up much of the government's energy. Yet no one has seen fit to
question the wisdom of holding another round of political party "think-ins" in
advance of the Dail reconvening on September 18.

TDs and senators will be "whipped" into hotels all over the country purportedly
to brainstorm, engage in "blue-sky thinking" and strategise with their party
ministers ahead of their return to parliament. Their deliberations will be sold
as a valuable exercise in participative democracy where backbenchers return from
a deserved summer break fully appraised of the views of the people. These are
shared with the policy shapers and decision-makers of the nation and, thus,
filter up into the legislative and budgetary plans of the parties for the busy
political season ahead.

Balderdash. The "think-ins" are a series of photoshoots and soundbites wound
around a thin semblance of policy renewal and political discourse. This is
harmless enough on one level but slowly corrosive on another, as they engage
elected representatives in a pretence of policy formation when their leaders are
more likely to follow the results of focus group research and the promptings of
their hired strategists and advisers.

The get-togethers weren't a bad idea 15 years ago, and worked particularly well
for a large party such as Fianna Fail, where backbenchers found it hard to get
"face time" with some ministers and where ministers became more and more
detached from the daily lives of ordinary folk - a consequence of 18 years in
government over two decades.

Fianna Fail's famous gathering at the Inchydoney hotel in West Cork in 2004 saw
the party move to reduce the Progressive Democrats' influence on government
policy. Finance minister Charlie McCreevy, a PD in Fianna Fail clothing, was the
sacrificial lamb dispatched to Brussels by Bertie Ahern to facilitate the
recalibration of Fianna Fail's social conscience.

But the political awaydays became tarnished by the drink culture that once
permeated the media and still pervaded politics when they were first introduced.

Heavy drinking has vanished from journalism and is a rarity in Leinster House,
late-night sittings notwithstanding. But it is less than 10 years since I met a
cabinet minister sipping a restorative brandy in the Dail visitors' bar at 11
o'clock in the morning. There was a hard-drinking crew in both of the large
political parties, but particularly in Fianna Fail.

The think-ins became knees-ups for the boozers, and tedious, phoney exchanges
for the deputies who didn't see any fun in propping up a bar counter at 3am.

The Fianna Fail gathering in Galway's Ardilaun hotel in 2010 undermined Brian
Cowen's authority as taoiseach and marked the beginning of the end of his
political career.

Having made the mistake of staying up to "bond" with TDs and senators of various
hues over the years, it dawned on me eventually that few worthwhile bonds are
forged beyond closing time. So I was safely tucked up in bed at 3.30am when
Cowen delivered his own late-night cabaret routine in the Ardilaun. And I had
just returned from a run on Salthill Prom - Oh, how I boasted virtuously - when
I heard his disastrous Morning Ireland interview at 8.50am when he mixed up the
Croke Park agreement with the Good Friday agreement and mumbled his way through
the rest of the exchange.

Cowen's "right to socialise" was defended by the abstemious Micheál Martin, Noel
Dempsey and Dermot Ahern in the course of the day (nasal congestion was the
favoured excuse), but Martin ousted him as leader four months later.

The Ardilaun was a watershed. Instead of racing to see who can buy the biggest
round after dinner, ministers are now more likely to see who can be first to
reach the solitude of their hotel room, safe from the prying eyes of political
correspondents and the pestering of political colleagues.

So the parties have tweaked the formula in recent years. Labour has increasingly
chosen venues near Dublin, allowing many members (and media) to return home
overnight and dodge the night-time festivities. Fine Gael's event in the
Heritage hotel in Portlaoise this year will equally facilitate a discreet exit
by those who prefer to digest their conference papers over cocoa on the couch at
home.

Sinn Fein has held several gatherings in Dublin, and even the independent
members of the Dail technical group have taken to holding a pre-Dail think-in at
a Dublin hotel to facilitate media attendance. But the think-ins have become
sterile, stage-managed and tired events and it's time they were put to bed for
good.

In reality, many of the ideas mulled around the table arrive precooked from some
focus-group process where pollsters road-test policy positions against a panel
of carefully selected, demographically representative consumers. Think-ins have
become less about debating political ideas and more about selling political
products that have been fashioned by "ad" men and marketing experts to the
elected representatives who will have to stand over them at the next election.

Where is the instinctive, gut political leadership of a Garret FitzGerald or,
say, a Seán Lemass - leaders who sold their vision to their party members and to
the voters? Did Des O'Malley walk away from Fianna Fail and found the PDs
because Mary Harney and Bobby Molloy waved a poll showing the potential support
for a new low-tax party? Or did he assemble a group of Fianna Fail members who
could no longer stomach Charles Haughey's autocractic style, and some of whom
shared a few neoliberal views about small government and low tax? They were
politicians who led, rather than followed; and if their ideas proved unpopular
with the people, they argued their merits and sought to bring as many of the
people with them as they could.

It was an old-fashioned concept called leadership. Any chance it might catch on
again some time soon? Matt Cooper is away

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 18, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Direct party plans to fight in every seat

BYLINE: Sarah McInerney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 445 words


A POLITICAL party formed only three years ago, Direct Democracy Ireland (DDI),
plans to run at least 131 candidates in the local elections next year, and may
also challenge for a seat in the European parliament.

Ben Gilroy, a DDI candidate who beat the Labour party into fifth place in the
Meath East by-election last March, said he is seriously considering running for
the European elections.

Conor Dalgarno, the party's director of elections, said it also plans to run at
least one candidate in every local election constituency.

DDI, which was set up in 2010 by Raymond Whitehead, a photographer, believes the
public should have the right to call a referendum on any topic if a sufficient
number of signatures are gathered.

It also wants people to have the power to remove any public representative from
office, if they are "deemed to have acted in breach of their terms of
employment". The party is against any tax on the family home and in favour of
substantial mortgage writedowns and cuts in business rates.

It surprised many people when Gilroy, who had no political experience, won 1,568
firstpreference votes in the Meath East by-election. Eoin Holmes, the Labour
party candidate, trailed behind Gilroy with 1,112 first-preference votes,
despite a concerted campaign by Labour ministers.

Dalgarno said the party's profile received a huge boost from the election, which
has led to an increase in membership. "We're meeting [on August 24] to collate
all our membership applications from around the country, and to sign off on
candidates for the local elections," he said.

"We won't have the figures for membership until then, but there has been a lot
of interest in the party. People are very disengaged from the mainstream
parties. They are very taken by the message of taking back control of their own
country." During the Meath East byelection, Gilroy admitted that DDI had
targeted the Labour party vote. He told The Sunday Times it would not be
adopting a similar strategy in the local and European elections. "We're not
going after any other party, we're just going to present our policies on our own
terms," he said. "The fact is, people do not feel represented by the main
parties, and we are giving them an alternative option."

Gilroy said he would wait until the constituency commission had drawn up the new
boundaries for the European elections before deciding whether to run for the EU
parliament. "We'll have to see how the constituencies are laid out, and then
we'll obviously have to run wherever we'd have the best chance of winning, so we
can't make that decision yet," he said.

The constituency commission is due to report in September on the new boundaries.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

ROCK SOLID;
As Spain blusters over its demand that Britain hand back Gibraltar after 300
years, Matthew Campbell finds its people determined to stay British

BYLINE: Matthew Campbell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1726 words


Awoman sat in her car in Winston Churchill Avenue reading a paper on Thursday
evening. She was waiting to cross the border from Gibraltar into Spain, not
usually a complicated procedure. Now, though, Spanish border guards were peering
for minutes on end at passports and searching cars.

"I've been waiting for over an hour and I've been warned it could be another 40
minutes before I'm through," said Luisa Alarcon. "It's ridiculous.

"It's meant to annoy the Gibraltarians, but it irritates Spaniards too. My
husband's going to have to give the children their dinner."

Alarcon, who works in a " supermarket in Gibraltar, is one of 7,000 Spaniards
who commute every day from La Linea, a town in southern Spain, to "the Rock", a
beacon of economic dynamism in contrast to the misery over the border. "We just
want to be able to do our jobs and get on with our lives," she said. "But the
Spanish government is making that difficult." The latest hostilities in the "
300-year conflict between Britain and Spain began with Gibraltar's decision to
create an artificial reef out of concrete blocks in an area over which Spanish
fishermen like to drag their nets for clams. The resulting row has done more
than inconvenience commuters.

Three British frigates are heading towards Gibraltar in what is termed a
"routine" military exercise. This follows sabre-rattling from Madrid of the kind
that has marred relations for centuries.

Under Fabian Picardo, 41, its feisty new leader, Gibraltar gave as good as it
got, accusing Madrid of behaving like North Korea after it threatened to
introduce a (EURO)50 border fee, restrict flights to the territory, and launch
tax investigations into Spanish properties owned by Gibraltarians.

Why all this fuss over a four square-mile chunk of rock? THE cafe terrace of the
Rock Hotel offers a bird's eye view of the Bay of Algeciras - Gibraltarians call
it the Bay of Gibraltar - and of the quayside where visiting British submarines
and frigates moor.

Will the long-scheduled arrival of HMS Illustrious and HMS Westminster be seized
on by Spain, like the artificial reef, as a pretext for ratcheting up the
conflict? "There's only one thing that will bring Spanish people together behind
their leaders and that's saying 'Gibraltar is Spanish'," said Albert Isola, a
Gibraltarian government minister, over tea on the hotel terrace. "We're a useful
political football and always have been," he added in his cut-glass English
accent.

According to this argument, the Spanish government is attempting to divert
attention away from the severe economic crisis as well as embarrassing
corruption scandals that have engulfed the royal family and the prime minister,
Mariano Rajoy, who is defending himself against claims by his former party
treasurer of having received cash payments over the years. Apparently the
strategy has worked. "Gibraltar has blown the treasurer off the front pages,"
Isola said.

"  Isola, 51, ministerof financial services and gaming, hoped that the crisis
would soon blow over: uncertainties over border crossings and taxes are not good
for its booming economy., which has grown 30% in the past four years.

The other day, Isola's 88-year-old mother spent 5Å hours in her car waiting to
cross Å the border. "Luckily, she had enough water with her as well as her
knitting," he said. "But it's no way for us to live."

He believed that Spain was in " as much of a mess as Argentina was when Leopoldo
Galterieri, the dictator, invaded the Falklands in 1982.

But nobody expects the spat over the Rock, which began when it was ceded to
Britain under the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713, to become a Falklands-style
conflict. Since the Spanish lifted their last, full-on siege in 1783, the
dispute has produced no victims but generated plenty of hot air, notably last
weekend, when Jose Garcia-Margallo, the Spanish foreign minister, announced
"play time is over".

Imposing border delays and threatening new taxes did not seem the best way for
Spain to win friends on the Rock, which it must if it aspires to lure them one
day into the Iberian fold. For the time being Gibraltar seems more British than
Britain, with its red telephone and letter boxes, seagulls and warm beer.

Gibraltar is a British overseas territory with a British governor and an elected
body that likes to call itself "Her Majesty's government".

Many of its 30,000 residents claim a Gibraltarian ancestry going back
generations and defend their right to British citizenship with the same fervour
as Falklands inhabitants. "We'll always be part of Britain," said a woman in a
union flag T-shirt queuing to use the NatWest cash dispenser in Main Street on
Friday. "The Spanish don't scare us."

Further up the road, Japanese tourists were shopping in M&S and haggling over
tours to visit The famous barbary apes. Though the bustle of Main Street looked
like business as usual, Edward Macquisten, chief executive of the local chamber
of commerce, said border delays were putting off visitors and would have an
impact on tourism, which accounts for a fifth of the £1.1bn ((EURO)1.27bn)
economy.

Spain appears to be shooting itself in the foot. "On the whim of a politician or
two in Madrid, these controls are probably doing more damage to Spain's local
economy than to anyone else," he said, adding that they were preventing
Spaniards from getting to work and stopping Gibraltarians from spending their
money in Spain.

Madrid claimed the controls were part of an effort to crack down on smugglers.
Locals scoffed at the idea. "They turn the pressure at the border on and off
like a tap," said Antonio Chamorro, a visiting Spanish engineer. "The border
guards take their orders directly from Madrid and slow things down if instructed
by officials who want to make a political statement."

Under Spain's former socialist government, relations with Gibraltar had been
smoother: Gibraltar blossomed into a financial centre and a headquarters for
internet gambling, which is estimated to account for another 20% of the economy.

Peter Montegriffo, a lawyer, suggested some Gibraltarians were nostalgic for the
days when the border was sealed by General Franco, Spain's fascist dictator, a
period known as "the siege". People left the keys in their cars: there was no
crime. Will Gibraltar be cut off again? "I hope not," said Montegriffo. "The
problem, though is that we're dealing with a wounded animal" - a reference to
Spain's weak and unpredictable Rajoy.

ACROSS the border in a small fishing port, Juan Morente and his father, also
called Juan, watched as a man grilled sardines on skewers over a fire that had
been made, as tradition dictates, in a boat filled with sand. The Morentes, like
their forebears, are fishermen who have spent their lives dragging nets across
the glittering bay.

Now, they claim, they can no longer fish - the artificial reef would snare their
nets. "It's a good idea to make these artificial reefs in places where there are
no fish," said the younger Morente. "But the one they put over there is in a
place where there are lots of fish. It doesn't make any sense."

However, Picardo denied the reef was being built in an area already teaming with
fish. And he defended the measure as necessary for protecting the environment.

"Despite the posturing of the past week, we have to realise we live in the
Europe of the 21st century," he said in an interview with The Sunday Times,
accusing the Spanish foreign minister of getting "carried away" and adopting an
"identical discourse" to Franco.

Picardo called it a "David and Goliath" contest in which a country of 45m was
"bullying" tiny Gibraltar. "We know how that parable ended, though," he added.

WHAT is the solution? Gibraltar, which in the old days controlled access to the
Mediterranean, is hardly the strategic asset it used to be.

The strong naval presence, once the mainstay of the local economy, has been
greatly diminished. Britain and Spain are close Nato allies. Why not let the
Rock go? Britain tried a decade ago to broker a joint-sovereignty deal but it
floundered over widespread suspicions that Spain was interested in the plan only
as a way of eventually recovering full sovereignty. In a 2002 referendum, 98% of
Gibraltarians said no.

What worries Montegriffo, the lawyer, the most is the possibility that Britain,
despite all prime minister David Cameron's protestations that sovereignty is not
a subject for discussion, may one day do a deal with Madrid behind Gibraltar's
back. Surely not? The scenario goes like this: desperate for allies in the EU to
renegotiate treaties, Britain asks for Spanish help and "throws in Gibraltar" in
exchange. No wonder some Gibraltarians are calling on the Queen to pay a visit.

More than the presence of frigates or submarines, that would make clear
Britain's determination never to abandon the Rock.

Europe's border rows Gibraltar and its isthmus are not the only territories
Spain disputes, writes Lucy Fisher.

It also claims Olivenza, a medieval town abutting Portugal, which it has refused
to return to its neighbour despite the clear terms of the 1815 Treaty of Vienna.

Across Europe there are disputed borders. The UK and Ireland both lay claim to
the territorial waters, and attendant fishing rights, of Lough Foyle, the River
Foyle and Carlingford Lough.

Both nations, along with Denmark and Iceland, are involved in four-way
negotiations over Rockall, an uninhabited 65ft-high rock 240 miles west of the
Scottish mainland, and its surrounding waters.

The summit of Mont Blanc, the highest mountain in the Alps, has been hotly
contested by France and Italy, where it is known as Monte Bianco, since the
French Revolution.

The administration of the mountain is shared between two towns on either side of
the border.

Greece and Turkey have long wrangled over maritime and air-space borders and
exclusive economic zones in the Aegean.

Since the 1970s the dispute has soured relations between the two nations, twice
almost leading to war, in 1987 and 1996.

The break-up of Yugoslavia in the 1990s plunged the Balkans into a series of
territorial quarrels. Croatia and Serbia have rival claims to islands in the
Danube.

Croatia and Montenegro dispute ownership of the Prevlaka peninsula, an
uninhabited headland in the Adriatic.

Bosnia-Herzegovina and Slovenia are also at loggerheads with Croatia over land
and sea borders.

'' WE'RE A USEFUL POLITICAL FOOTBALL

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Olivenza: Spain refuses to hand town to Portugal
OLI SCARFF/SEAN CLEE/IAN CANHAM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ROCK SOLID;
As Spain blusters over its demand that Britain hand back Gibraltar after 300
years, Matthew Campbell finds its people determined to stay British

BYLINE: Matthew Campbell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1500 words


Awoman sat in her car in Winston Churchill Avenue reading a paper on Thursday
evening. She was waiting to cross the border from Gibraltar into Spain, not
usually a complicated procedure. Now, though, Spanish border guards were peering
for minutes on end at passports and searching cars.

"I've been waiting for over an hour and I've been warned it could be another 40
minutes before I'm through," said Luisa Alarcon, taking a break from her
reading.

"It's ridiculous. It's meant to annoy the Gibraltarians, but it irritates
Spaniards too. My husband's going to have to give the children their dinner."

Alarcon, who works in a " supermarket in Gibraltar, is one of 7,000 Spaniards
who commute every day from La Linea, a town in southern Spain, to "the Rock", a
beacon of economic dynamism in contrast to the misery over the border.

"We just want to be able to do our jobs and get on with our lives," she said.
"But the Spanish government is making that difficult."

The latest hostilities in the " 300-year conflict between Britain and Spain
began with Gibraltar's decision to create an artificial reef out of concrete
blocks in an area over which Spanish fishermen like to drag their nets for
clams. The ensuing row has done more than inconvenience commuters.

Three British frigates are heading towards Gibraltar in what is termed a
"routine" military exercise.

"  This followed sabre-rattlingfrom Madrid of the kind that has marred relations
for centuries. Under Fabian Picardo, 41, its feisty new leader, Gibraltar gave
as good as it got, accusing Madrid of behaving like North Korea after it
threatened to introduce a (EURO)50(£43) border fee, restrict flights to the
territory and launch tax investigations into Spanish properties owned by
Gibraltarians.

Why all this fuss over a four squaremile chunk of rock? THE cafe terrace of the
Rock Hotel offers a bird's eye view of the Bay of Algeciras - Gibraltarians call
it - the Bay of Gibraltar - and of the quaysi- where visiting British submarines
and frigates moor.

Will the long-scheduled arrival of HMS Illustrious and HMS Westminster be seized
on by Spain, like the artificial reef, as a pretext for ratcheting up the
conflict? "There's only one thing that will bring Spanish people together behind
their leaders and that's saying that 'Gibraltar is Spanish'," said Albert Isola,
a Gibraltarian government minister, over tea on the hotel terrace. "We're a
useful political football and always have been," he added in his cut-glass
English accent.

According to this argument, the Spanish government is attempting to divert
attention away from the severe economic crisis as well as embarrassing
corruption scandals that have engulfed the royal family and the prime minister,
Mariano Rajoy, who is defending himself against claims by his former party
treasurer of having received cash payments over the years. Apparently the
strategy has worked. "Gibraltar has blown the treasurer off the front pages,"
Isola said.

Isola, 51, minister of financial services and gaming, hoped that the crisis
would soon blow over: uncertainties over border crossings and taxes are not good
for its booming economy, which has grown 30% in the past four years.

The other day, Isola's 88-year-old mother spent 5Å hours in her car waiting to
cross the border. "Luckily, she had enough water with her as well as her
knitting," he said. "But it's no way for us to live."

He believed that Spain was in as much of a mess as Argentina was when Leopoldo
Galterieri, the dictator, invaded the Falklands in 1982.

But nobody expects the spat over the Rock, which began when it was ceded to
Britain under the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713, to become a Falklandsstyle
conflict.

Since the Spanish lifted their last, full-on siege in 1783, the dispute has
produced no victims but has generated plenty of hot air, notably last weekend,
when Jose Garcia-Margallo, the Spanish foreign minister, announced that "play
time is over".

Imposing border delays and threatening new taxes did not seem the best way for
Spain to win friends on the Rock, which it must if it aspires to lure them one
day into the Iberian fold. For the time being Gibraltar seems more British than
Britain with its red telephone and letter boxes, seagulls and warm beer.

Gibraltar is a British overseas territory with a British governor and an elected
body that likes to call itself "Her Majesty's government". Many of its 30,000
residents claim a Gibraltarian ancestry going back generations and defend their
right to British citizenship with the same fervour as inhabitants of the
Falklands.

"We'll always be part of Britain," said a woman in a union flag T-shirt queuing
to use the cash dispenser outside the NatWest in Main Street on Friday. "The
Spanish don't scare us."

Further up the road, Japanese tourists were shopping in M&S and haggling over
tours to visit the famous barbary apes that have run rampant on the Rock since
culling was suspended several years ago.

Though the bustle of Main Street looked like business as usual, Edward
Macquisten, chief executive of the local chamber of commerce, said border delays
were putting off visitors and would have an impact on tourism, which accounts
for a fifth of the £1.1bn economy.

Spain appears to be shooting itself in the foot. "On the whim of a politician or
two in Madrid, these controls are probably doing more damage to Spain's local
economy than to anyone else," he said, adding that they were preventing
Spaniards from getting to work and stopping Gibraltarians from spending their
money in Spain.

Madrid claimed the controls were part of an effort to crack down on smugglers.
Locals scoffed at the idea.

"They turn the pressure at the border on and off like a tap," said Antonio
Chamorro, a visiting Spanish engineer. "The border guards take their orders
directly from Madrid and slow things down if instructed by officials who want to
make a political statement."

Under Spain's former Socialist government, relations with Gibraltar had been
smoother: Gibraltar blossomed into a financial centre and a headquarters for
internet gambling, which is estimated to account for another 20% of the economy.

Peter Montegriffo, a lawyer, suggested that some Gibraltarians were nostalgic
for the days when the border was sealed by General Franco, Spain's fascist
dictator, a period known as "the siege".

People left the keys in their cars: there was no crime. Will Gibraltar be cut
off again? "I hope not," said Montegriffo.

"The problem, though," he added, "is that we're dealing with a wounded animal" -
a reference to Spain's weak and unpredictable Rajoy.

ACROSS the border in a small fishing port, Juan Morente and his father, also
called Juan, watched as a man grilled sardines on skewers over a fire that had
been made, as tradition dictates, in a boat filled with sand.

The Morentes, like their forebears, are fishermen who have spent their lives
dragging nets across the glittering bay.

Now, they claim, they can no longer fish - the artificial reef would snare their
nets. "It's a good idea to make these artificial reefs in places where there are
no fish," said the younger Morente. "But the one they put over there is in a
place where there are lots of fish. It doesn't make any sense."

However, Picardo denied that the reef was being built in an area already teaming
with fish. And he defended the measure as necessary for protecting the
environment. "Despite the posturing of the past week, we have to realise that we
live in the Europe of the 21st century," he said in an interview with The Sunday
Times, accusing the Spanish foreign minister of getting "carried away" and
adopting an "identical discourse" to that of Franco.

Picardo called it a "David and Goliath" contest in which a country of 45m was
"bullying" tiny Gibraltar. "We know how that parable ended, though," he added.

WHAT is the solution? Gibraltar, which in the old days controlled access to the
Mediterranean, is hardly the strategic asset it used to be.

The strong naval presence, once the mainstay of the local economy, has been
greatly diminished. Britain and Spain are close Nato allies. Why not let the
Rock go? Britain tried a decade ago to broker a joint-sovereignty deal but it
foundered over widespread suspicions that Spain was interested in the plan only
as a way of eventually recovering full sovereignty. In a 2002 referendum, 98% of
Gibraltarians said no.

What worries Montegriffo, the lawyer, the most is the possibility that Britain,
despite all David Cameron's protestations that sovereignty is not a subject for
discussion, may one day do a deal with Madrid behind Gibraltar's back. Surely
not? The scenario goes like this: desperate for allies in the EU to renegotiate
treaties, Britain asks for Spanish help and "throws in Gibraltar" in exchange.
No wonder some Gibraltarians are calling on the Queen to pay a visit.

More than the presence of frigates or submarines, that would make clear
Britain's determination never to abandon the Rock.

'' WE'RE A USEFUL POLITICAL FOOTBALL AND ALWAYS HAVE BEEN

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OLI SCARFF/SEAN CLEE/IAN CANHAM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OSBORNE STEPS UP AS CAMERON STUMBLES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 624 words


These should be heady days for the coalition and particularly for the Tories.
The economic news has been uniformly good and in many cases surprisingly strong.
Services, manufacturing and construction are all growing, housebuilding and
house prices are on the rise and the trade deficit - Britain's Achilles heel -
is falling on the back of a rise in exports.

For the first time since the coalition took office three years ago, the economy
no longer seems to be stuck in the slow lane. Forecasters, including those at
the Bank of England, are busy revising up predictions for the outlook. Consumers
are more confident than at any time in the current parliament, as are
businesses, which see better times ahead.

No longer does the Treasury's talk of moving "from rescue to recovery" look like
wishful thinking. George Osborne can jar - saying stay-at-home mothers were
making a lifestyle choice was clumsy - but he held his nerve as the criticism of
his strategy rained down. His dogged pursuit of Mark Carney to be the new Bank
governor seems to be paying dividends.

Although the governor's policy of forward guidance on interest rates is
controversial, he appears to be a man who will not rest until the economy has
achieved what he describes as "escape velocity" from the financial crisis. If
the new forecasts prepared under his direction are right, the feelgood factor
will continue to build in the run-up to the May 2015 election.

Timing is everything in politics and Mr Osborne - barring accidents - appears to
be getting his right. Labour's economic policy alternative, always hard to
discern, has withered as the economy has warmed up.

The question is why the Tories are not doing better. Our YouGov poll today shows
that Labour, despite having been well-nigh invisible recently, still enjoys an
eight-point lead. The spectre of 1997, when even a strong economy did not
prevent the Tories from being cast into the political wilderness, has not
disappeared.

Some of it reflects the fact that these are early days. Real incomes are
squeezed, as they have been for the past four years. If you want to win what
Americans call a pocketbook election, people have to feel it in their wallets.
That will come but is not here yet.

Mainly, however, it is because voters are far from sure about the prime
minister. David Cameron's Downing Street operation has not suddenly got better
because the economic news has improved. It remains dysfunctional and subject to
too many avoidable errors.

The Sunday Times was on the receiving end of one of these last week when the
prime minister criticised our Insight team after a court judgment in favour of
Peter Cruddas, the former Tory co-treasurer. The Sunday Times, however, had
already indicated its intention to appeal against this judgment and believes it
was premature of Mr Cameron to comment before the outcome is known. Mr Cruddas's
own complaint was that Mr Cameron had responded in haste to the original report.

The prime minister too often shoots from the hip or appears badly briefed. Last
week he promised an immediate £1m for every community which allowed fracking for
shale gas. This turned out to be a slip of the tongue. An earlier pledge that
energy firms would be forced to put customers on the lowest tariffs morphed into
a mere requirement that the companies should offer information on such tariffs.

Mr Cameron was forced into a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU only
after pressure from his backbenchers and the threat from UKIP. He failed to push
through boundary changes that would have helped the Tories. He too often follows
rather than leads. An improving economy is necessary for electoral success.
Without a better performance from the prime minister it will not be sufficient.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory activists desert party

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Elizabeth Culliford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 533 words


THE scale of the collapse in Tory membership has been revealed by data showing
that up to half the activists in some cabinet ministers' seats have deserted the
party since the election.

Thousands of members have quit since 2010 in disillusionment with the coalition
or alienated by policies such as gay marriage or the failure to call a
referendum on the European Union's Lisbon treaty.

The worst-affected ministers include Eric Pickles, the communities secretary,
Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, and Iain Duncan Smith, the
work and pensions secretary. All of them have seen falls of at least a third in
their constituency membership.

Despite demands for openness from grandees such as Lord Ashcroft, formerly the
party's biggest donor and deputy chairman, the Tories have refused to say how
many paid-up members they have.

However, an analysis by The Sunday Times of constituency accounts submitted to
the Electoral Commission reveals the haemorrhaging of support. The accounts
probably understate the decline, because in most cases they cover only the
period up to the end of 2011 or 2012, before the divisive gay marriage debates
this year. In addition, some constituencies have stopped disclosing their
membership figures at all.

The worst-affected cabinet member is Pickles, whose Brentwood and Ongar
constituency posted a 49.3% fall in membership between 2009 and 2012.

Villiers, MP for Chipping Barnet, saw her membership numbers plummet 43.9% from
787 in 2009 to 441 in 2012. In the Chingford and Woodford Green constituency of
Duncan Smith, numbers fell by 37% between 2009 and 2012.

Other ministers who have suffered steep falls include Patrick McLoughlin, the
transport secretary and MP for Derbyshire Dales; Michael Gove, the education
secretary and member for Surrey Heath; Justine Greening, the international
development secretary and MP for Putney; and Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary,
who represents South West Surrey.

In the Basingstoke constituency of Maria Miller, the culture secretary, who
oversaw the gay marriage legislation, just 259 members remained at the end of
2011, compared with 339 before the election, a fall of 22.7%.

Only David Cameron and William Hague, the foreign secretary, have bucked the
trend for steep declines in ministers' seats. Both have seen drops of less than
2%.

Conservative membership has been falling for decades. From a peak of more than
3m in the 1950s, it had fallen to 258,000 when Cameron became leader in 2005.

A briefing released by the House of Commons at the end of last year estimated
2011 numbers at 130,000-170,000, but some MPs believe it is now 100,000 at most.
According to the Commons, Labour had 193,000 members in 2011.

The lack of support is causing acute concern in Tory circles because of the
likely problems of mobilising campaigners to work locally.

Some Tory MPs have bucked the trend for falling numbers with high-profile local
campaigning. They include Douglas Carswell, MP for Harwich &Clacton, and Andrew
Rosindell, MP for Romford, whose numbers went up by 90% from 402 to 763.
Rosindell said: "You have got to bring in younger people. I am adamant about
this, even if this can upset older members of the party."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa Villiers's local party has lost a third of members
OLI SCARFF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

ROCK SOLID;
As Spain blusters over its demand that Britain hand back Gibraltar after 300
years, Matthew Campbell finds its people determined to stay British

BYLINE: Matthew Campbell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1500 words


Awoman sat in her car in Winston Churchill Avenue reading a paper on Thursday
evening. She was waiting to cross the border from Gibraltar into Spain, not
usually a complicated procedure. Now, though, Spanish border guards were peering
for minutes on end at passports and searching cars.

"I've been waiting for over an hour and I've been warned it could be another 40
minutes before I'm through," said Luisa Alarcon, taking a break from her
reading.

"It's ridiculous. It's meant to annoy the Gibraltarians, but it irritates
Spaniards too. My husband's going to have to give the children their dinner."

Alarcon, who works in a " supermarket in Gibraltar, is one of 7,000 Spaniards
who commute every day from La Linea, a town in southern Spain, to "the Rock", a
beacon of economic dynamism in contrast to the misery over the border.

"We just want to be able to do our jobs and get on with our lives," she said.
"But the Spanish government is making that difficult."

The latest hostilities in the " 300-year confrontation between Britain and Spain
began with Gibraltar's decision to create an artificial reef out of concrete
blocks in an area over which Spanish fishermen like to drag their nets for
clams. The ensuing row has done more than inconvenience commuters.

Three British frigates are heading towards Gibraltar in what is termed a
"routine" military exercise.

"  This followed sabre-rattlingfrom Madrid of the kind that has marred relations
for centuries. Under Fabian Picardo, 41, its feisty new leader, Gibraltar gave
as good as it got, accusing Madrid of behaving like North Korea after it
threatened to introduce a $50 (£43) border fee, restrict flights to the
territory and launch tax invest i g at i on s into Spanish properties owned by
Gibraltarians.

Why all this fuss over a four squaremile chunk of rock? THE cafe terrace of the
Rock Hotel offers a bird's eye view of the Bay of Algeciras - Gibraltarians call
it - the Bay of Gibraltar - and of the quaysi- where visiting British submarines
and frigates moor.

Will the long-scheduled arrival of HMS Illustrious and HMS Westminster be seized
on by Spain, like the artificial reef, as a pretext for ratcheting up the
conflict? "There's only one thing that will bring Spanish people together behind
their leaders and that's saying that 'Gibraltar is Spanish'," said Albert Isola,
a Gibraltarian minister, over tea on the hotel terrace. "We're a useful
political football and always have been," he added in his cut-glass English
accent.

According to this argument, the Spanish government is trying to divert attention
from the severe economic crisis as well as embarrassing corruption scandals that
have engulfed the royal family and the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, who is
defending himself against claims by his former party treasurer that he received
cash payments over the years.

Apparently the strategy has worked. "Gibraltar has blown the treasurer off the
front pages," Isola said.

Isola, 51, minister of financial services and gaming, hoped the crisis would
blow over: uncertainties over border crossings and taxes are not good for its
booming economy, which has grown 30% in the past four years.

The other day, Isola's 88-year-old mother spent 5Å hours in her car waiting to
cross the border. "Luckily, she had enough water with her as well as her
knitting," he said. "But it's no way for us to live."

He believed Spain was in as much of a mess as Argentina was when Leopoldo
Galterieri, the dictator, invaded the Falklands in 1982.

But nobody expects the spat over the Rock, which began when it was ceded to
Britain under the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713, to become a Falklandsstyle war.

Since the Spanish lifted their last full-on siege in 1783, the dispute has
produced no victims but plenty of hot air, notably last weekend, when Jose
Garcia-Margallo, the Spanish foreign minister, announced that "play time is
over".

Imposing border delays and threatening new taxes did not seem the best way for
Spain to win friends on the Rock, which it must if it aspires to lure them one
day into the Iberian fold. For now, Gibraltar seems more British than Britain
with its red telephone and letter boxes, seagulls and warm beer.

Gibraltar is a British overseas territory with a British governor and an elected
body that call itself "Her Majesty's government".

Many of its 30,000 residents claim a Gibraltarian ancestry going back
generations and defend their right to British citizenship with the same fervour
as Falklanders.

"We'll always be part of Britain," said a woman in a union flag T-shirt queueing
to use the cash dispenser outside the NatWest in Main Street on Friday. "The
Spanish don't scare us."

Further up the road, Japanese tourists were shopping in M&S and haggling over
visits to see the famous barbary apes at loose on the Rock.

Though the bustle of Main Street looked like business as usual, Edward
Macquisten, chief executive of the chamber of commerce, said border delays were
putting off visitors and would affect tourism, which accounts for a fifth of the
£1.1bn economy.

Spain appears to be shooting itself in the foot. "On the whim of a politician or
two in Madrid, these controls are probably doing more damage to Spain's local
economy than to anyone else," he said, adding that they were preventing
Spaniards from getting to work and stopping Gibraltarians from spending money in
Spain.

Madrid claimed the controls were part of an effort to crack down on smugglers.
Locals scoffed at the idea.

"They turn the pressure at the border on and sure off like a tap," said Antonio
Chamorro, a visiting Spanish engineer. "The border guards take their orders
directly from Madrid and slow things down if instructed by officials who want to
make a political statement."

Under Spain's former Socialist government, relations with Gibraltar were
smoother: it blossomed into a financial centre and a headquarters for internet
gambling, which is estimated to account for 20% of the economy.

Peter Montegriffo, a lawyer, suggested some Gibraltarians were nostalgic for the
days when the border was sealed by General Franco, Spain's fascist dictator, a
period known as "the siege".

People left the keys in their cars; there was no crime. Will Gibraltar be cut
off again? "I hope not," said Montegriffo. "The problem, though," he added, "is
that we're dealing with a wounded animal" - a reference to Spain's weak and
unpredictable Rajoy.

ACROSS the border in a small fishing port, Juan Morente and his father, also
Juan, watched as a man cooked sardines on skeweres over a fire made, as
tradition dictates, in a boat filled with sand.

The Morentes, like their forebears, are fishermen who have spent their lives
dragging nets across the glittering bay.

Now, they claim, they can no longer fish - the reef would snare their nets.
"It's a good idea to make these artificial reefs in places where there are no
fish," said the younger Morente. "But the one they put over there is in a place
where there are lots of fish. It doesn't make any sense."

However, Picardo denied the area of the reef was teeming with fish and defended
the measure as necessary to protect the environment. "Despite the posturing of
the past week, we have to realise that we live in the Europe of the 21st
century," he told The Sunday Times, accusing the Spanish foreign minister of
getting "carried away" and adopting an "identical discourse" to that of Franco.

Picardo called it a "David and Goliath" contest in which a country of 45m was
"bullying" tiny Gibraltar. "We know how that parable ended, though," he added.

WHAT is the solution? Gibraltar, which in the old days controlled access to the
Mediterranean, is hardly the strategic asset it used to be.

The naval presence, once the mainstay of the economy, is greatly diminished.
Britain and Spain are Nato allies. Why not let the Rock go? Britain tried a
decade ago to broker a joint-sovereignty deal but it foundered over widespread
suspicions that Spain was interested in the plan only as a way of eventually
recovering full sovereignty. In a 2002 referendum, 98% of Gibraltarians said no.

A YouGov poll for The Sunday Times suggests the British public largely support
the people of Gibraltar. Only 22% said talks on sovereignty should be held with
Spain, with 61% in favour of the Rock staying British and, of those, 12% saying
a warship should be sent to assert ownership.

Despite this, what worries Montegriffo, the lawyer, the most is the possibility
that Britain, despite all David Cameron's protestations that sovereignty is not
a subject for discussion, may one day do a deal with Madrid behind Gibraltar's
back. Surely not? The scenario goes like this: desperate for allies in the EU to
renegotiate treaties, Britain asks for Spanish help and "throws in Gibraltar" in
exchange. No wonder some Gibraltarians are calling on the Queen to pay a visit.

More than the presence of frigates or submarines, that would make clear
Britain's determination never to abandon the Rock.

'' WE'RE A USEFUL POLITICAL FOOTBALL AND ALWAYS HAVE BEEN

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OLI SCARFF/SEAN CLEE/IAN CANHAM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory activists desert party

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Elizabeth Culliford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 533 words


legislation, just 259 members remained at the end of 2011, compared with 339
before the election, a fall of 22.7%.

Only David Cameron and William Hague, the foreign secretary, have bucked the
trend for steep declines in ministers' seats. Both have seen drops of less than
2%.

Conservative membership has been falling for decades. From a peak of more than
3m in the 1950s, it had fallen to 258,000 when Cameron became leader in 2005.

A briefing released by the House of Commons at the end of last year estimated
2011 numbers at 130,000-170,000, but some MPs believe it is now 100,000 at most.
According to the Commons, Labour had 193,000 members in 2011.

The lack of support is causing acute concern in Tory circles because of the
likely problems of mobilising campaigners to work locally.

Some Tory MPs have bucked the trend for falling numbers with high-profile local
campaigning. They include Douglas Carswell, MP for Harwich &Clacton, and Andrew
Rosindell, MP for Romford, whose numbers went up by 90% from 402 to 763.
Rosindell said: "You have got to bring in younger people. I am adamant about
this, even if this can upset older members of the party."

THE scale of the collapse in Tory membership has been revealed by data showing
that up to half the activists in some cabinet ministers' seats have deserted the
party since the election.

Thousands of members have quit since 2010 in disillusionment with the coalition
or alienated by policies such as gay marriage or the failure to call a
referendum on the European Union's Lisbon treaty.

The worst-affected ministers include Eric Pickles, the communities secretary,
Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, and Iain Duncan Smith, the
work and pensions secretary. All of them have seen falls of at least a third in
their constituency membership.

Despite demands for openness from grandees such as Lord Ashcroft, formerly the
party's biggest donor and deputy chairman, the Tories have refused to say how
many paid-up members they have.

However, an analysis by The Sunday Times of constituency accounts submitted to
the Electoral Commission reveals the haemorrhaging of support. The accounts
probably understate the decline, because in most cases they cover only the
period up to the end of 2011 or 2012, before the divisive gay marriage debates
this year. In addition, some constituencies have stopped disclosing their
membership figures at all.

The worst-affected cabinet member is Pickles, whose Brentwood and Ongar
constituency posted a 49.3% fall in membership between 2009 and 2012.

Villiers, MP for Chipping Barnet, saw her membership numbers plummet 43.9% from
787 in 2009 to 441 in 2012. In the Chingford and Woodford Green constituency of
Duncan Smith, numbers fell by 37% between 2009 and 2012.

Other ministers who have suffered steep falls include Patrick McLoughlin, the
transport secretary and MP for Derbyshire Dales; Michael Gove, the education
secretary and member for Surrey Heath; Justine Greening, the international
development secretary and MP for Putney; and Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary,
who represents South West Surrey.

In the Basingstoke constituency of Maria Miller, the culture secretary, who
oversaw the gay marriage

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa Villiers's local party has lost a third of members
OLI SCARFF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Tory activists desert party

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Elizabeth Culliford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 534 words


legislation, just 259 members remained at the end of 2011, compared with 339
before the election, a fall of 22.7%.

Only David Cameron and William Hague, the foreign secretary, have bucked the
trend for steep declines in ministers' seats. Both have seen drops of less than
2%.

Conservative membership has been falling for decades. From a peak of more than
3m in the 1950s, it had fallen to 258,000 when Cameron became leader in 2005.

A briefing released by the House of Commons at the end of last year estimated
2011 numbers at 130,000-170,000, but some MPs believe it is now 100,000 at most.
According to the Commons, Labour had 193,000 members in 2011.

The lack of support is causing acute concern in Tory circles because of the
problem of mobilising activists to work on election campaigns.

Some Tory MPs have bucked the trend for falling numbers with high-profile
community campaigning. They include Douglas Carswell, the MP for Clacton, and
Andrew Rosindell, MP for Romford, whose numbers have gone up 90% from 402 to
763.

Rosindell said: "You have got to bring in younger people. I am adamant about
this, even if it can upset some older members of the party."

THE scale of the collapse in Tory membership has been revealed by data showing
that up to half the activists in some cabinet ministers' seats have deserted the
party since the election.

Thousands of members have quit since 2010 in disillusionment with the coalition
or alienated by policies such as gay marriage or the failure to call a
referendum on the European Union's Lisbon treaty.

The worst-affected ministers include Eric Pickles, the communities secretary,
Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, and Iain Duncan Smith, the
work and pensions secretary. All of them have seen falls of at least a third in
their constituency membership.

Despite demands for openness from grandees such as Lord Ashcroft, formerly the
party's biggest donor and deputy chairman, the Tories have refused to say how
many paid-up members they have.

However, an analysis by The Sunday Times of constituency accounts submitted to
the Electoral Commission reveals the haemorrhaging of support. The accounts
probably understate the decline, because in most cases they cover only the
period up to the end of 2011 or 2012, before the divisive gay marriage debates
this year. In addition, some constituencies have stopped disclosing their
membership figures at all.

The worst-affected cabinet member is Pickles, whose Brentwood and Ongar
constituency posted a 49.3% fall in membership between 2009 and 2012.

Villiers, MP for Chipping Barnet, saw her membership numbers plummet 43.9% from
787 in 2009 to 441 in 2012. In the Chingford and Woodford Green constituency of
Duncan Smith, numbers fell by 37% between 2009 and 2012.

Other ministers who have suffered steep falls include Patrick McLoughlin, the
transport secretary and MP for Derbyshire Dales; Michael Gove, the education
secretary and member for Surrey Heath; Justine Greening, the international
development secretary and MP for Putney; and Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary,
who represents South West Surrey.

In the Basingstoke constituency of Maria Miller, the culture secretary, who
oversaw the gay marriage

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OLI SCARFF Theresa Villiers's local party has lost a third of members

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Tory activists desert party

BYLINE: Jack Grimston ; Elizabeth Culliford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 533 words


legislation, just 259 members remained at the end of 2011, compared with 339
before the election, a fall of 22.7%.

Only David Cameron and William Hague, the foreign secretary, have bucked the
trend for steep declines in ministers' seats. Both have seen drops of less than
2%.

Conservative membership has been falling for decades. From a peak of more than
3m in the 1950s, it had fallen to 258,000 when Cameron became leader in 2005.

A briefing released by the House of Commons at the end of last year estimated
2011 numbers at 130,000-170,000, but some MPs believe it is now 100,000 at most.
According to the Commons, Labour had 193,000 members in 2011.

The lack of support is causing acute concern in Tory circles because of the
likely problems of mobilising campaigners to work locally.

Some Tory MPs have bucked the trend for falling numbers with high-profile local
campaigning. They include Douglas Carswell, MP for Harwich &Clacton, and Andrew
Rosindell, MP for Romford, whose numbers went up by 90% from 402 to 763.
Rosindell said: "You have got to bring in younger people. I am adamant about
this, even if this can upset older members of the party."

THE scale of the collapse in Tory membership has been revealed by data showing
that up to half the activists in some cabinet ministers' seats have deserted the
party since the election.

Thousands of members have quit since 2010 in disillusionment with the coalition
or alienated by policies such as gay marriage or the failure to call a
referendum on the European Union's Lisbon treaty.

The worst-affected ministers include Eric Pickles, the communities secretary,
Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, and Iain Duncan Smith, the
work and pensions secretary. All of them have seen falls of at least a third in
their constituency membership.

Despite demands for openness from grandees such as Lord Ashcroft, formerly the
party's biggest donor and deputy chairman, the Tories have refused to say how
many paid-up members they have.

However, an analysis by The Sunday Times of constituency accounts submitted to
the Electoral Commission reveals the haemorrhaging of support. The accounts
probably understate the decline, because in most cases they cover only the
period up to the end of 2011 or 2012, before the divisive gay marriage debates
this year. In addition, some constituencies have stopped disclosing their
membership figures at all.

The worst-affected cabinet member is Pickles, whose Brentwood and Ongar
constituency posted a 49.3% fall in membership between 2009 and 2012.

Villiers, MP for Chipping Barnet, saw her membership numbers plummet 43.9% from
787 in 2009 to 441 in 2012. In the Chingford and Woodford Green constituency of
Duncan Smith, numbers fell by 37% between 2009 and 2012.

Other ministers who have suffered steep falls include Patrick McLoughlin, the
transport secretary and MP for Derbyshire Dales; Michael Gove, the education
secretary and member for Surrey Heath; Justine Greening, the international
development secretary and MP for Putney; and Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary,
who represents South West Surrey.

In the Basingstoke constituency of Maria Miller, the culture secretary, who
oversaw the gay marriage

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa Villiers's local party has lost a third of members
OLI SCARFF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

OSBORNE STEPS UP AS CAMERON STUMBLES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 624 words


These should be heady days for the coalition and particularly for the Tories.
The economic news has been uniformly good and in many cases surprisingly strong.
Services, manufacturing and construction are all growing, housebuilding and
house prices are on the rise and the trade deficit - Britain's Achilles heel -
is falling on the back of a rise in exports.

For the first time since the coalition took office three years ago, the economy
no longer seems to be stuck in the slow lane. Forecasters, including those at
the Bank of England, are busy revising up predictions for the outlook. Consumers
are more confident than at any time in the current parliament, as are
businesses, which see better times ahead.

No longer does the Treasury's talk of moving "from rescue to recovery" look like
wishful thinking. George Osborne can jar - saying stay-at-home mothers were
making a lifestyle choice was clumsy - but he held his nerve as the criticism of
his strategy rained down. His dogged pursuit of Mark Carney to be the new Bank
governor seems to be paying dividends.

Although the governor's policy of forward guidance on interest rates is
controversial, he appears to be a man who will not rest until the economy has
achieved what he describes as "escape velocity" from the financial crisis. If
the new forecasts prepared under his direction are right, the feelgood factor
will continue to build in the run-up to the May 2015 election.

Timing is everything in politics and Mr Osborne - barring accidents - appears to
be getting his right. Labour's economic policy alternative, always hard to
discern, has withered as the economy has warmed up.

The question is why the Tories are not doing better. Our YouGov poll today shows
that Labour, despite having been well-nigh invisible recently, still enjoys an
eight-point lead. The spectre of 1997, when even a strong economy did not
prevent the Tories from being cast into the political wilderness, has not
disappeared.

Some of it reflects the fact that these are early days. Real incomes are
squeezed, as they have been for the past four years. If you want to win what
Americans call a pocketbook election, people have to feel it in their wallets.
That will come but is not here yet.

Mainly, however, it is because voters are far from sure about the prime
minister. David Cameron's Downing Street operation has not suddenly got better
because the economic news has improved. It remains dysfunctional and subject to
too many avoidable errors.

The Sunday Times was on the receiving end of one of these last week when the
prime minister criticised our Insight team after a court judgment in favour of
Peter Cruddas, the former Tory co-treasurer. The Sunday Times, however, had
already indicated its intention to appeal against this judgment and believes it
was premature of Mr Cameron to comment before the outcome is known. Mr Cruddas's
own complaint was that Mr Cameron had responded in haste to the original report.

The prime minister too often shoots from the hip or appears badly briefed. Last
week he promised an immediate £1m for every community which allowed fracking for
shale gas. This turned out to be a slip of the tongue. An earlier pledge that
energy firms would be forced to put customers on the lowest tariffs morphed into
a mere requirement that the companies should offer information on such tariffs.

Mr Cameron was forced into a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU only
after pressure from his backbenchers and the threat from UKIP. He failed to push
through boundary changes that would have helped the Tories. He too often follows
rather than leads. An improving economy is necessary for electoral success.
Without a better performance from the prime minister it will not be sufficient.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UK exit from EU would not slam door on trade;
LETTERS Send your letters to: 4th floor, Bishop's Square, Redmond's Hill, Dublin
2 email ireland@sunday-times.ie Fax 01 479 2421 AND EMAIL

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 374 words


BRITAIN does need to talk about leaving the European Union, but it needs to be
done in a way that is not alarmist ("Britain needs to talk about leaving
Europe", Editorial; and "In/out, in/out, the Brexit battle is shaking us all
about", News Review, last week).

A misunderstanding in the debate so far has been that jobs depend on EU
membership. Jobs depend on trade and not on continued EU membership.

As the UK is the EU's single largest customer worldwide, it is unequivocally in
the EU's interests to have a trading agreement with the UK. But a trading
relationship without membership could get rid of unwanted EU regulations. Rory
Broomfield Deputy Director, The Freedom Association; Director, Better Off Out;
London EC4Y Vote of no confidence Referendums just provide an opportunity to put
two fingers up to the government - how many voters are going to read "18
detailed and authoritative studies" on the merits of EU membership? Much better
to set up a public inquiry with the final decision taken by a jury of citizens.
If this was good enough for 4th-century Athens, the birthplace of democracy, it
should do now. Keith Sutherland Department of Politics University of Exeter
Business nonsense The Japanese claiming that if Britain left the EU the nation
would suffer job losses from tariffs is plainly silly. This is from a country
that does not have a trade deal with the EU - and it is still the world's third
largest economy. The UK is the largest single trading partner with the rest of
the EU.

Under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty the EU is compelled to negotiate a
"withdrawal agreement" with a departing member state. This should take the form
of a trade agreement where no tariffs are levied on either side.

An "EEA Lite" model, a cross between Norway's EEA and Switzerland's bilateral
free trade agreements, would maintain tariff-free access to the EU but scrap red
tape. David Campbell Bannerman MEP, Conservative Member of the European
Parliament for the East of England Who will pay? Having one currency for so many
countries, thus depriving them of movement on currency exchange rate - let alone
lending rate - was always going to be difficult. Other than the Germans, who is
going to pay for it all? Alastair Clarke Via email

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Johnson was said to have made a pact with the devil at a crossroads in
Mississippi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trade without red tape: our life outside the EU;
LETTERS AND EMAIL

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 232 words


BRITAIN does need to discuss exiting the EU, but in a way that is not alarmist
("We need to talk about leaving Europe", Editorial, and "In/out, in/out, the
Brexit battle is shaking us all about", News Review, last week).

Jobs depend on trade, not on EU membership, and as the UK is the EU's single
largest customer, it is in the EU's interests to have a trading agreement with
us. However, a trade relationship without membership could get rid of unwanted
regulations. Rory Broomfield Deputy Director, The Freedom Association; Director,
Better Off Out, London EC4 Business nonsense The Japanese claim that if Britain
left the EU we would suffer job losses from tariffs is plainly silly ("Japan
warns UK not to leave Europe", News, last week). This is from a country that
does not have a trade deal with the EU - and it is still the world's
third-largest economy.

David Campbell Bannerman Conservative Member of the European Parliament for the
East of England Vote of no confidence Referendums just provide an opportunity to
put two fingers up to the government - how many voters are going to read "18
detailed and authoritative studies" on the merits of EU membership? It is much
better to set up a public inquiry with the final decision taken by a jury of
citizens. This worked well in 4th-century BC Athens, the birthplace of
democracy. Keith Sutherland Department of Politics University of Exeter

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Trade without red tape: our life outside the EU;
LETTERS AND EMAIL

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 232 words


BRITAIN does need to discuss exiting the EU, but in a way that is not alarmist
("We need to talk about leaving Europe", Editorial, and "In/out, in/out, the
Brexit battle is shaking us all about", News Review, last week).

Jobs depend on trade, not on EU membership, and as the UK is the EU's single
largest customer, it is in the EU's interests to have a trading agreement with
us. However, a trade relationship without membership could get rid of unwanted
regulations. Rory Broomfield Deputy Director, The Freedom Association; Director,
Better Off Out, London EC4 Business nonsense The Japanese claim that if Britain
left the EU we would suffer job losses from tariffs is plainly silly ("Japan
warns UK not to leave Europe", News, last week). This is from a country that
does not have a trade deal with the EU - and it is still the world's
third-largest economy.

David Campbell Bannerman Conservative Member of the European Parliament for the
East of England Vote of no confidence Referendums just provide an opportunity to
put two fingers up to the government - how many voters are going to read "18
detailed and authoritative studies" on the merits of EU membership? It is much
better to set up a public inquiry with the final decision taken by a jury of
citizens. This worked well in 4th-century BC Athens, the birthplace of
democracy. Keith Sutherland Department of Politics University of Exeter

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

THIS WEEK'S MUST-READS;
THE STORIES YOUWON'T WANT TO MISS IN TODAY'S SUNDAY TIMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2606 words


NEWS REVIEW The teenage bomber with the soulful eyes: what turned a laid-back
young man into a radical who terrorised the Boston marathon? Detroit, Motown and
me: Jeremy Clarkson on the city of sweet soul music and the shadow of bankruptcy
hanging over it On yer bike - only I get to ring his bell: an interview with
Michelle Cound, the fiercely protective fiancée and manager of Tour de France
winner Chris Froome HOME George lends a hand: as more details of the
chancellor's Help to Buy scheme emerge, we give you an indispensable guide
TRAVEL Wild summer: tell the kids to put away their iPhones and step into the
great outdoors with our brilliant active family breaks GET THE CLASSIC SUNDAY
TIMES PLUS £No 9,854 JULY21, 2013 DIGITAL PACK FOR JUST£4AWEEK HOT HOTSTUFF MAKE
THE MOSTOF THE HEATWAVE PICNIC HEAVEN + MAK AK AKE TH THEMOS OST HEATW ATW A AVE
NIC VEN + HALF PRICE FAMILY TICKETSFOR WARWICK CASTLE 2-FOR-1 AT MERLIN PARKS
FORSUBSCRIBERS SUPER SALADSAND MORE FROM THE BEST FOOD BLOGGERS + MAGAZINE C COO
G S S EAV AV A ROUTS AUSTR HA HA HA HA HA HALF LF LF LF LF LF LF LF LF LF PR PR
PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PRIC IC IC IC IC IC IC IC IC IC IC IC IC
IC IC IC IC ICE FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA FA
FAMIL TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TICK CK CK CK CK CK CK CK CK CK
CK CK CKET ET ET ET ETS FOR OR WAR ARWIC ICK CAS ASTL TLE 2-2-FO FOR-R-1 A 1 AT
AT A MER ER ERLI LI LI LI LI LI LI LI PA PA PA PA PA PA PA PA PA PA PA PA PA PA
PA PA PA PA PA PA PA PARK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK RK
RK RK RK RK RK R S FO FO FO FO FO FO FO FO FORS RS RS RS RS RS RS RS RS RS RS RS
RS RS RS RS RSUB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UB UBSC SC SC SC SC
SC SC SC SC SC SC SC SC SC SC SC SC SC SC SCRIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB
RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIB RIBER NDMOR OR OR OR OR OR
OR OR OR OR OR OR OR ORE FR FROM OM BLOG OG OG OG OG OG OG OG OG OG OG OGGE GERS
MA MAGA GAZIN ZINE S S RITY COOK SUMMER CELEBRITY COOK GIZZI ERSKINE'S SUMMER
MENU GIZZI E I ERS RS RS RS RS RS RSKI KI KI KI KI KI KI KI KI KINE NE NE NE NE
NE NE NE NE NE NE NE NE NE NE'S 'S 'S 'S 'S 'S 'S 'S 'S 'S 'S RMENU NU NU NU NU
NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU NU R SALADS AN E ROOT AUSTRALIA
STRA RAL RALIA ALIA KIRSTY WIGGLESWORTH KIRSTY KIRSTY RSTY RSTY RSTY RSTY RSTY
RSTY RSTY WIGGLE WIGGLE WIGGLE WIGGLESWO GGLESWO GGLESWO WIGGLE GGLESWORTH
ESWORTH WIGGLE WIGGLE GGLESWO GGLESWO GGLESWORTH PM vows to fight Google on porn
Japanwarns UK not to leaveEurope Isabel Oakeshott Political Editor Ja Ja Ja Ja
Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Ja Japa pa pa pa pa pa pa pa pa p apa a
nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nw nwar ar ar
ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar
ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar
ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar ar
ar ar ar ar ar ar ar war w ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns
ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns
ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns
ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns UK UK UK UK UK UK UK
UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK
UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK UK no no no no not t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t o le leav av a eE veE v ur urop op rop r e Isab
sabel Isabel Oakes keshott Oakeshott and Marie arie Woolf oolf DAVID CAMERON is
preparing for a showdown with internet giants as talks stall over the removal of
child pornography and other illegal images from the web.


Isabel Oakeshott and Marie Woolf THE THE THE THE Japane Japane Japanese anese
ese anese governm government rnm rnment governm has has has has waded waded aded
into into the debate debate bate Britain's Britain Britain's relationship onship
well-qualifie well-q ell-qualified well-q well-q well-qualifie qualified to to
to to to to see see see see see see see see the the the the the the the the way
way ay ay forward forw rward rward ard ard ard for for Brita Brita Britain
ritain ritain ritain ritain ain ain. ain. ain. Brita Brita Britain ritain ritain
ritain. ain. Brita Brita Britain ritain ritain. ain. ain. ain. In In deciding
deciding ding on on on our our our our our our nati nation nation nati nation
national ional ional nati nation national nati nation nation interest interest
we we we we may may may may have have have ave have ave ave ave have have ave
ave ave ave to to to to to to to to disa disa disap-disap-disa disa
disap-disappoint point their their eir their eir expectatio expecta expecta
expecta ectations." ations." ations." ations." ns." ns." ns." ns." ectations."
ations." ations." ns." ns." ns." ns." ectatio ations." ations." ns." ns." ns."

The prime minister will issue an ultimatum tomorrow to companies including
Google, giving them until October to fulfil their "moral duty" to block such
material. David David vid Cam Camer Camer has has has has vowed owed owed owed
ed expe expect xpect ects ects expect xpects that hat hat hat hat that the the
he he he UK UK UK UK will will will will will maintain maintain ntain nta
maintain maintain a s a s a strong tron trong trong trong voice voice voice and
and and and and and and cont ont ontinue ontinue ontinu tinu tinue ontinue tinue
tinue tinue to to to pla play play ay play ay pla play ay play ay ayam am am am
am amajor ajor ajor ajor role role role in in in in in in the the the he he he
he he EU. EU. EU. EU. EU. EU. EU. EU. The The The The The UK, UK, UK, K, UK, UK,
UK, as as as as a c a c a champ hamp hamp mpion pion pion pion mpion pion pion
pion pion pion pion pion pion of of of of free free free ree ree free ree ree
free free ree ree ree ree trade trade trade ade, ade, ade, ade, trade, trade
ade, ade, e, is is is a r a r a relia eliable eliable ble ble ble eliable ble
ble ble ble ble partn partner partner partner partner for for for for Japan
Japan Japan Japan. Mor More More More More than than than han han han han THE
Japanese government has waded into the debate over Britain's relationship with
Europe, issuing an extraordinary warning against leaving the EU. them until
October to fulfil their eir "moral duty" uty" duty to block such material.
well-qualified to see the way forward for Britain. In deciding on our national
interest we may have to disappoint their expectations." David Cameron has vowed
to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU before holding a referendum by
2017 on whether to leave.

over Britain's relationship onship ship relations with Europe rope Europe,
issuing issui an extraordinary warning arning against leaving the EU.

David vid Cameron meron ron has vowe vowed owed to renegotia negotiate
renegotiate reneg Britain Britain's itain's n's rela rela-relationship tionship
with the EU before holding a r referendum eferendum by 2017 017 on whether wheth
to leave. leav The stark message from the he Japanese comes as the he government
prepares prepar pares this his In his most outspoken intervention interve on the
problem, he will warn that he is exploring explori new laws to force them to do
more to predmother's partn partner ner for Japan Japan. apan. More than han 1
300 1,300 ,300 Japanese companies ompanies compan panies have invested in the
UK, as part of the single market of the EU, and have created 130,000 jobs, more
than anywhere else in Europe. This fact demonstrates that the advantage of In an
unusual intervention, the government ent of Japan pan has ha hinted that 130,000
00 British jobs could be at stake ke if the UK In an unusual intervention, the
government of Japan has hinted that 130,000 British jobs could be at stake if
the UK pulls out of the union.

Relaxwith a newspaper on Sunday and catch up with our digital content on the go
during the week. For only £4aweek the Classic Sunday Times Plus Digital Pack
lets you enjoy the best of bothworlds. Youwill get the tablet edition seven
daysaweek, unlimited access to both websites, the smartphone app and The Sunday
Times print edition every weekend The stark message from the Japanese comes as
the government prepares this week to publish a review into the scale of the EU's
meddling in British affairs.

In his most outspoken intervention on the problem, he will warn that he is
exploring new laws to force them to do more to prevent paedophiles gaining
access to obscene material. His call follows ameeting last week with the family
of Tia Sharp, the 12-year-old schoolgirl murdered by her grandmother's boyfriend
in south London, and the parents of April Jones, the five-year-old from Wales
murdered by a paedophile. In both cases the killers had watched child
pornography on the internet. expects that the UK will maintain a strong voice
and continue to playamajor role in the EU. The UK, as a champion of free trade,
is a reliable partner for Japan. More than 1,300 Japanese companies have
invested in the UK, as part of the single market of the EU, and have created
130,000 jobs, more than anywhere else in Europe. This fact demonstrates that the
advantage of the UK as a gateway to the European market has attracted Japanese
investment," it says. Last night the Japanese embassy in London defended the
statement. "We know some countries decided not to submit comments but as non-EU
nation and major investor in the UK we thought it was appropriate. We have taken
advantage of this occasion to express our expectations.. . If the UK leaves the
single market, countries investing in the UK and exporting to the EU would have
to pay tariffs, and that is not good news."

markets Cameron is expected to use the findings on how edicts from Brussels
affect health, taxation, employment, foreign affairs, animal welfare and food
standards policy in an attempt to wrest powers back from Brussels.

policy April r-old A memo submitted to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office warns
that Japanese companies invest in the UK because they see it as a gateway to
European markets. The document suggests that up to 1,300 Japanese firms with
British outlets could review their position if Britain does not continue to play
a "major role" in the EU. "The government of Japan expects theUKto maintain this
favourable role," it says.

Japan Foreign governments were invited to submit comments to the review. Almost
all appear to have declined after concluding that it would be unwise to get
involved in such a sensitive debate.

ingle such gica damage April's mother, Coral, has said that a clampdown on
indecent images of children would be a "legacy" for her murdered daughter. Tia's
biological father, Steven Carter, said Cameron's intervention was "a step in the
right direction". "It shows there is some willingness to get this solved," he
said. "It's too late for myself, but if we can at least help other children and
other parents then it's something positive." In a speech tomorrow, The comments
will be seized on by Europhile MPs as evidence that loosening ties with Brussels
could damage British business. But Eurosceptic MPs reacted angrily to the
intervention, labelling it inappropriate. Julian Brazier, Conservative MP for
Canterbury and a former City economist, said: "It's kind of the Japanese to give
us guidance on our national destiny but at a time when the eurozone is in a
crisis unseen for nearly a century I'm not sure they are In its submission to
the socalled "balance of competences review", the Japanese government
acknowledged that the issue was primarily one for the British people. However,
Tokyo made it clear that it would take a dim view of any significant change to
the status quo: "The government of Japan. .. is committed to making its
relationship with theEU stronger than ever before. In this context, it solved
lved," However, Hideaki Kase, diplomatic commentator, described the statement as
"incredible". "It is interference into Britain's domestic politics. It is also
impolite," he said. "I suspect somebody close to [the Japanese prime minister]
Shinzo Abe instructed the embassy to issue that incredible statement, but I
cannot guess who som Continued on page 2 WW The England opener Joe Root, 22,
celebrates his century against Australia at Lord's yesterday. He finished the
day 178 not out as his team built a lead of 566 Sport, page 2 Continued on page
2 WW ve e ed ta w ns o 0 pa gol h d at y Revealed:hospitalswithone consultant
for 100 patients Richard Brooks Arts Editor Bookseller's golden gift to fans of
JK Rowling Alas, Mel Smith dies at only 60 Jon kends. pati a n Jon Ungoed-Thomas
and Sarah-Kate Templeton The emerged pect inspect Cuckoo's Calling, each of
which was signed personally by the book's author Robert Galbraith back in April.

ngle consu However, Headley, who specialises in signed first editions often by
relatively obscure authors, refused to cash in and has sold all but handful of
his remaining copies to lucky buyers at their face value-£16.99.

at weekends. Instead they rely on those consultants who are on call to attend
the wards. At some points at weekends, North Cumbria University Hospitals NHS
Trust, one of those criticised last week in a damning report into the quality of
care by Sir Bruce Keogh, NHS medical director for England, has had as few as
their most senior doctors on Saturdays and Sundays. The stark statistics emerged
as Professor Mike Richards, thenew chief inspector of hospitals, admitted
weekend services required improvement. Figures compiled by Dr Foster
Intelligence, a health information company, show some trusts roster no
consultants in their major hospitals MEL SMITH, the comic, actor, writer,
producer and director, died yesterday from a heart attack after several years of
poor health. He was 60. He was best known for his roles in hits such as Not the
Nine O'Clock News and Alas Smith and Jones. "Mel was a gentleman and a scholar,
gambler and wit," said his costar, Griff Rhys Jones.

he A LONDON bookshop owner has turned down the chance to make a small fortune
after snapping up 250 signed first editions of JK Rowling's first detective
novel.

SOME hospitals are asking a single consultant to oversee 100 patients during
busy periods at the weekend, The Sunday Times can reveal. According to the first
national data to expose poor out-of-hours cover, some NHS trusts deploy fewer
than 5% of d t ti ice ose Last weekend The Sunday Times revealed that Galbraith
was in fact the Harry Potter author writing under a pseudonym, since when the
price of signed first editions on eBay has soared to more than £1,000 each.

a h infor England, nd, David Headley, the owner of Goldsboro Books in London,
ordered the copies of The The revelation that Rowling had managed to fool
everyone by publishing her first crime Continued on page 2 WW eBay Full report,
page 3 Continued on page 2 WW Call 0800 092 2712 and quote 'lifestyle' for more
details or visit timespacks.com/lifestyle ANYSECTIONSMISSING? your paper is
incomplete we will send you the missing section(s) subject toavailability.
Telephone 0207711 1521 oremail customerservices@sundaytimes.

co.uk or text 84555 with the word MISSINGplus your nameand address andmissing
section(s)

OVERSEAS Denmark Dkr 52 France $5.00 Germany $5.00 Gibraltar £3.00 Greece $5.00
Italy $5.00 Luxembourg $5.00 Malta $5.00 Morocco MAD 92 Netherlands $5.00 Norway
NOK 75 Portugal cont $5.00 Spain $5.00 Sweden SEK 79 Switzerland CHF 10.00
Turkey TL 12.00 PRICES Belgium $5.00 Bulgaria 10.00 BGN Cyprus $5.00 North
Cyprus YTL 12.50

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Crosby show rekindles Tory fighting spirit

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1033 words


Flaming July gave Tory MPs another reason to grumble about the Speaker as he
refused to relax the dress code and allow the removal of jackets in the chamber.
But most who crowded onto the government benches for the last prime minister's
questions until September were happy to put up with the discomfort.

David Cameron gave them what they wanted: a putdown of Ed Miliband - "Every day
this country is getting stronger and every day he is getting weaker" -
underpinned with a catalogue of the policies that the Conservatives claim are at
last paying dividends. "The deficit is down, unemployment is falling, crime is
down, welfare is capped and Abu Qatada is back in Jordan."

The renewed optimism among his hitherto surly backbenchers allowed the prime
minister to postpone the slaps and prizes of a parliamentary reshuffle. Those
Tories not tied up in annoying Labour at the committee stage of the EU
Referendum Bill strolled into the evening sunshine after a rousing end-of-term
report from the boss to the 1922 committee and declared themselves well
satisfied with his leadership.

"A spring in our step"; "We are in a good place"; "Of course it won't last but I
can't recall a July when we left Westminster in such good spirits," they said.

Even those who admitted that the Conservatives still lagged well behind Labour
in the opinion polls found an optimistic gloss: "We are behind, but this far out
we are about as behind as we need to be." In fact, the latest figures from seven
opinion pollsters still show Labour above 35%, consistently enough for Miliband
to form the next government - and usually with an overall majority. A recent
projection by the UK Polling Report website indicated a Labour majority of 84
seats.

The Tories reckon that Miliband is unpopular and that the Labour lead of between
zero and 9% is vanishingly soft compared with the double-digit reserves built by
Tony Blair two years before his general election victory.

But the man who seems to be getting most credit for the Tory revival, such as it
is, is not Cameron. Instead, Lynton Crosby, a softly spoken, middle-aged
Australian political strategist, is assuming the Svengali-like role and
inspiring the kind of awed respect once accorded to another "Prince of
Darkness", Peter Mandelson.

As with Mandelson, Crosby's political allies swear by him and his opponents
swear about him. That's why a week of wrangling over the vital topic of the
National Health Service has been boiled down to a letter from the Labour leader
to Sir Jeremy Heywood, the cabinet secretary, demanding an investigation into
Crosby's alleged "conflicts of interest" since he is both campaign manager for
Cameron and a lobbyist for big tobacco, big alcohol and even, Labour claims, the
fracking industry.

Every available detail on Crosby is now under investigation in the hope of
turning up a killer fact but, as he likes to say: "That goes with the territory,
mate."

In Crosby's worldview the left likes to obsess over conspiracy theories, which
pleases the core vote but passes over the heads of swing voters.

Is he as important as his enemies think he is? His record as a vote winner in
conservative politics is impressive. In Australia he helped John Howard to four
consecutive victories.

But his 2005 general election campaign for Michael Howard - with the slogan "Are
you thinking what we're thinking?" - has not gone down as a British classic,
although Crosby fans point out that the Tories saw their first net gains from
Labour in 13 years and diminished Blair's majority.

Then there's Boris Johnson's re-election campaign in 2012 - probably the most
potent reason for Cameron to want Crosby on his side.

Crosby has the advantage of having cut his teeth in a UK-style parliamentary
democracy, unlike advisers imported from the US, who tend to concentrate too
much on the leader. He spends as much time talking to activists and backbenchers
as he does, as Cameron puts it characteristically, "helping me beat Labour".
Crosby has become a diligent speaker on the Tory dinner circuit and briefs Tory
MPs and candidates regularly. Some old timers reckon his advice is a bit obvious
but concede it has helped to steady those elected in 2010.

Not all of them, though. The independent-minded Sarah Wollaston seems to have
picked a fight with the Australian. She tweeted her defiance when he asked MPs
to be players rather than commentators, and laughed at Miliband's "Benson and
Hedgefunds" jibe at Cameron's climbdown on cigarette packaging and minimum
alcohol pricing. When the reshuffle comes, it will be a test of Crosby's
forbearance as to whether Cameron finds a place for the talented GP in
government ranks.

Crosby's main aim in the run-up to 2015 is to keep the focus on Labour. While
the coalition took difficult decisions that were bound to be unpopular, the
argument goes, Labour curled up into a ball to be as small a target as possible.
Now that Cameron has had some successes, the Tories are being tasked with
uncurling their opponents, preferably attaching a "Kick me" sign to the prickles
of the spatchcocked hedgehog.

This is why last week Jeremy Hunt talked of Labour's shame and disgrace when the
Keogh report on the NHS came out, whereas weeks earlier Cameron took a
statesmanlike view that all should learn lessons from the Mid Staffordshire
report.

The prime minister seems happy in either mode, and enjoyed telling Miliband he
would be a write-off until he sacked the men next to him - Andy Burnham, the
shadow health secretary, and Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, both of whose form
stretches back to the last Labour government.

As to the allegations of improper influence, Cameron says Crosby did not lobby,
but there's no doubt his clients reflect his philosophy - leave fags and booze
alone and concentrate on the things that make a big difference to ordinary
people.

Undoubtedly the drink and smoking climbdowns play to the saloon-bar prejudices
of UKIP, but the Tories say the polls show them leading UKIP on these issues.
They believe Nigel Farage is fading, another reason for their good mood as they
head back to their constituencies, where they'll try to do what Lynton wants and
turn up the summer heat on Labour.

@adamboultonsky

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Japan warns UK not to leave Europe;
EU warning

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 849 words


THE Japanese government has waded into the debate over Britain's relationship
with Europe, issuing an extraordinary warning against leaving the EU.

In an unusual intervention, the government of Japan has hinted that 130,000
British jobs could be at stake if the UK pulls out of the union.

A memo submitted to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office warns that Japanese
companies invest in the UK because they see it as a gateway to European markets.

The document suggests that up to 1,300 Japanese firms with British outlets could
review their position if Britain does not continue to play a "major role" in the
EU. "The government of Japan expects the UK to maintain this favourable role,"
it says.

The comments will be seized on by Europhile MPs as evidence that loosening ties
with Brussels could damage British business. But Eurosceptic MPs reacted angrily
to the intervention, labelling it inappropriate. Julian Brazier, Conservative MP
for Canterbury and a former City economist, said: "It's kind of the Japanese to
give us guidance on our national destiny but at a time when the eurozone is in a
crisis unseen for nearly a century I'm not sure they are well-qualified to see
the way forward for Britain. In deciding on our national interest we may have to
disappoint their expectations." David Cameron has vowed to renegotiate Britain's
relationship with the EU before holding a referendum by 2017 on whether to
leave.

The stark message from the Japanese comes as the government prepares this week
to publish a review into the scale of the EU's meddling in British affairs.

Cameron is expected to use the findings on how edicts from Brussels affect
health, taxation, employment, foreign affairs, animal welfare and food standards
policy in an attempt to wrest powers back from Brussels.

Foreign governments were invited to submit comments to the review. Almost all
appear to have declined after concluding that it would be unwise to get involved
in such a sensitive debate.

In its submission to the socalled "balance of competences review", the Japanese
government acknowledged that the issue was primarily one for the British people.

However, Tokyo made it clear that it would take a dim view of any significant
change to the status quo: "The government of Japan ... is committed to making
its relationship with the EU stronger than ever before. In this context, it
expects that the UK will maintain a strong voice and continue to play a major
role in the EU. The UK, as a champion of free trade, is a reliable partner for
Japan. More than 1,300 Japanese companies have invested in the UK, as part of
the single market of the EU, and have created 130,000 jobs, more than anywhere
else in Europe. This fact demonstrates that the advantage of the UK as a gateway
to the European market has attracted Japanese investment," it says.

Last night the Japanese embassy in London defended the statement. "We know some
countries decided not to submit comments but as a non-EU nation and major
investor in the UK we thought it was appropriate. We have taken advantage of
this occasion to express our expectations.

.. If the UK leaves the single market, countries investing in the UK and
exporting to the EU would have to pay tariffs, and that is not good news."

However, Hideaki Kase, a diplomatic commentator, described the statement as
"incredible". "It is interference into Britain's domestic politics. It is also
impolite," he said. "I suspect somebody close to [the Japanese prime minister]
Shinzo Abe instructed the embassy to issue that incredible statement, but I
cannot guess who had such a bad idea." Shoichi Nakase, a former senior executive
at Mitsubishi Corp, which employs hundreds of people in the UK, also described
the memo as ill-considered. "I doubt if that represents an outright interference
into domestic politics. But it does not look like an appropriate thing for an
embassy to do."

Tory Eurosceptics insisted the Japanese had no reason to worry - even if Britain
left the EU.

Bernard Jenkin, MP for Harwich and North Essex, said: "Any new relationship with
the EU, even if we leave, is bound to give the UK access to the EU single
market. There is no possibility that the UK will lose access. This has always
been the scare story run by Europhiles, but what government in their right mind
is going to put us in that position?" Andrea Leadsom, a founding member of the
Fresh Start Group of MPs pushing for the return of powers from Brussels to the
UK, said the Japanese were anxious. "It's no secret that the Japanese see their
investment in Britain as an investment in the EU via Britain. The sense in Japan
is that even the uncertainty is having a chilling effect on inward investment
decisions," she said.

However, Europhile Tories said the Japanese analysis was reasonable, and more of
this argument would be heard as the debate on Britain's place in Europe
continued. "The Japanese remark seems to be a perfectly coherent remark that
needs to be taken account of when we get to a referendum," said Sir Tony Baldry,
Tory MP for Banbury.

We need to talk about leaving Europe, Editorial, page 20

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Japan warns UK not to leave Europe;
EU warning

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 850 words


THE Japanese government has waded into the debate over Britain's relationship
with Europe, issuing an extraordinary warning against leaving the EU.

The Tokyo government has hinted that 130,000 British jobs could be at stake if
the UK pulls out of the union.

A memo submitted to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office warns that Japanese
companies invest in the UK because they see it as a gateway to European markets.

The document suggests that up to 1,300 Japanese firms with British outlets could
review their position if Britain does not continue to play a "major role" in the
EU. "The government of Japan expects the UK to maintain this favourable role,"
it says.

The comments will be seized on by Europhile MPs as evidence that loosening ties
with Brussels could damage British business. But Eurosceptic MPs reacted angrily
to the intervention, labelling it inappropriate.

Julian Brazier, Conservative MP for Canterbury and a former City economist,
said: "It's kind of the Japanese to give us guidance on our national destiny,
but at a time when the eurozone is in a crisis unseen for nearly a century I'm
not sure they are well-qualified to see the way forward for Britain. In deciding
on our national interest we may have to disappoint their expectations." David
Cameron has vowed to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU before
holding a referendum by 2017 on whether to leave.

The message from the Japanese comes as the government prepares this week to
publish a review into the scale of the EU's meddling in British affairs.

Cameron is expected to use the findings on how edicts from Brussels affect
health, taxation, employment, foreign affairs, animal welfare and food standards
policy in an attempt to wrest powers back from Brussels.

Foreign governments were invited to submit comments to the review. Almost all
appear to have declined after concluding that it would be unwise to get involved
in such a sensitive debate.

In its submission to the socalled balance of competences review, the Japanese
government acknowledged that the issue was primarily one for the British people.

However, Tokyo made it clear that it would take a dim view of any significant
change to the status quo: "The government of Japan ... is committed to making
its relationship with the EU stronger than ever before. In this context, it
expects that the UK will maintain a strong voice and continue to play a major
role in the EU. The UK, as a champion of free trade, is a reliable partner for
Japan.

"More than 1,300 Japanese companies have invested in the UK, as part of the
single market of the EU, and have created 130,000 jobs, more than anywhere else
in Europe. This fact demonstrates that the advantage of the UK as a gateway to
the European market has attracted Japanese investment."

Last night the Japanese embassy in London defended the statement. "We know some
countries decided not to submit comments but as a non-EU nation and major
investor in the UK we thought it was appropriate. We have taken advantage of
this occasion to express our expectations.

.. If the UK leaves the single market, countries investing in the UK and
exporting to the EU would have to pay tariffs, and that is not good news."

However, Hideaki Kase, a diplomatic commentator, described the statement as
"incredible". "It is interference into Britain's domestic politics. It is also
impolite," he said. "I suspect somebody close to [the Japanese prime minister]
Shinzo Abe instructed the embassy to issue that incredible statement, but
Continued on page 2 ?? WW

? Continued from page 1 I cannot guess who had such a bad idea."

Toyota and Nissan own Britain's two largest car plants, employing more than
9,000 people.

Shoichi Nakase, a former senior executive at Mitsubishi Corp, which employs
hundreds of people in the UK, also described the memo as ill-considered. "I
doubt if that represents an outright interference into domestic politics. But it
does not look like an appropriate thing for an embassy to do."

Tory Eurosceptics insisted the Japanese had no reason to worry - even if Britain
left the EU.

Bernard Jenkin, MP for Harwich and North Essex, said: "Any new relationship with
the EU, even if we leave, is bound to give the UK access to the EU single
market. There is no possibility that the UK will lose access. This has always
been the scare story run by Europhiles, but what government in their right mind
is going to put us in that position?" Andrea Leadsom, a founding member of the
Fresh Start Group of MPs pushing for the return of powers from Brussels to the
UK, said the Japanese were anxious. "The sense in Japan is that even the
uncertainty is having a chilling effect on inward investment decisions."

Europhile Tories said the Japanese analysis was reasonable, and more of this
argument would be heard as the debate on Britain's place in Europe continued.
"The Japanese remark seems to be a perfectly coherent remark that needs to be
taken account of when we get to a referendum," said Sir Tony Baldry, Tory MP for
Banbury.

We need to talk about leaving Europe, Editorial, page 20

? Continued from page 1 I cannot [...]

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Japan warns UK not to leave Europe;
EU warning

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 850 words


THE Japanese government has waded into the debate over Britain's relationship
with Europe, issuing an extraordinary warning against leaving the EU.

The Tokyo government has hinted that 130,000 British jobs could be at stake if
the UK pulls out of the union.

A memo submitted to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office warns that Japanese
companies invest in the UK because they see it as a gateway to European markets.

The document suggests that up to 1,300 Japanese firms with British outlets could
review their position if Britain does not continue to play a "major role" in the
EU. "The government of Japan expects the UK to maintain this favourable role,"
it says.

The comments will be seized on by Europhile MPs as evidence that loosening ties
with Brussels could damage British business. But Eurosceptic MPs reacted angrily
to the intervention, labelling it inappropriate.

Julian Brazier, Conservative MP for Canterbury and a former City economist,
said: "It's kind of the Japanese to give us guidance on our national destiny,
but at a time when the eurozone is in a crisis unseen for nearly a century I'm
not sure they are well-qualified to see the way forward for Britain. In deciding
on our national interest we may have to disappoint their expectations." David
Cameron has vowed to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU before
holding a referendum by 2017 on whether to leave.

The message from the Japanese comes as the government prepares this week to
publish a review into the scale of the EU's meddling in British affairs.

Cameron is expected to use the findings on how edicts from Brussels affect
health, taxation, employment, foreign affairs, animal welfare and food standards
policy in an attempt to wrest powers back from Brussels.

Foreign governments were invited to submit comments to the review. Almost all
appear to have declined after concluding that it would be unwise to get involved
in such a sensitive debate.

In its submission to the socalled balance of competences review, the Japanese
government acknowledged that the issue was primarily one for the British people.

However, Tokyo made it clear that it would take a dim view of any significant
change to the status quo: "The government of Japan ... is committed to making
its relationship with the EU stronger than ever before. In this context, it
expects that the UK will maintain a strong voice and continue to play a major
role in the EU. The UK, as a champion of free trade, is a reliable partner for
Japan.

"More than 1,300 Japanese companies have invested in the UK, as part of the
single market of the EU, and have created 130,000 jobs, more than anywhere else
in Europe. This fact demonstrates that the advantage of the UK as a gateway to
the European market has attracted Japanese investment."

Last night the Japanese embassy in London defended the statement. "We know some
countries decided not to submit comments but as a non-EU nation and major
investor in the UK we thought it was appropriate. We have taken advantage of
this occasion to express our expectations.

.. If the UK leaves the single market, countries investing in the UK and
exporting to the EU would have to pay tariffs, and that is not good news."

However, Hideaki Kase, a diplomatic commentator, described the statement as
"incredible". "It is interference into Britain's domestic politics. It is also
impolite," he said. "I suspect somebody close to [the Japanese prime minister]
Shinzo Abe instructed the embassy to issue that incredible statement, but
Continued on page 2 ?? WW

? Continued from page 1 I cannot guess who had such a bad idea."

Toyota and Nissan own Britain's two largest car plants, employing more than
9,000 people.

Shoichi Nakase, a former senior executive at Mitsubishi Corp, which employs
hundreds of people in the UK, also described the memo as ill-considered. "I
doubt if that represents an outright interference into domestic politics. But it
does not look like an appropriate thing for an embassy to do."

Tory Eurosceptics insisted the Japanese had no reason to worry - even if Britain
left the EU.

Bernard Jenkin, MP for Harwich and North Essex, said: "Any new relationship with
the EU, even if we leave, is bound to give the UK access to the EU single
market. There is no possibility that the UK will lose access. This has always
been the scare story run by Europhiles, but what government in their right mind
is going to put us in that position?" Andrea Leadsom, a founding member of the
Fresh Start Group of MPs pushing for the return of powers from Brussels to the
UK, said the Japanese were anxious. "The sense in Japan is that even the
uncertainty is having a chilling effect on inward investment decisions."

Europhile Tories said the Japanese analysis was reasonable, and more of this
argument would be heard as the debate on Britain's place in Europe continued.
"The Japanese remark seems to be a perfectly coherent remark that needs to be
taken account of when we get to a referendum," said Sir Tony Baldry, Tory MP for
Banbury.

We need to talk about leaving Europe, Editorial, page 20

? Continued from page 1 I cannot [...]

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Japan warns UK not to leave Europe;
EU warning

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words


THE Japanese government has waded into the debate over Britain's relationship
with Europe, issuing an extraordinary warning against leaving the EU.

In an unusual intervention, the government of Japan has hinted that 130,000
British jobs could be at stake if the UK pulls out of the union.

A memo submitted to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office warns that Japanese
companies invest in the UK because they see it as a gateway to European markets.

The document suggests that up to 1,300 Japanese firms with British outlets could
review their position if Britain does not continue to play a "major role" in the
EU. "The government of Japan expects the UK to maintain this favourable role,"
it says.

The comments will be seized on by Europhile MPs as evidence that loosening ties
with Brussels could damage British business. But Eurosceptic MPs reacted angrily
to the intervention, labelling it inappropriate. Julian Brazier, Conservative MP
for Canterbury and a former City economist, said: "It's kind of the Japanese to
give us guidance on our national destiny but at a time when the eurozone is in a
crisis unseen for nearly a century I'm not sure they are well-qualified to see
the way forward for Britain. In deciding on our national interest we may have to
disappoint their expectations." David Cameron has vowed to renegotiate Britain's
relationship with the EU before holding a referendum by 2017 on whether to
leave.

The stark message from the Japanese comes as the government prepares this week
to publish a review into the scale of the EU's meddling in British affairs.

Cameron is expected to use the findings on how edicts from Brussels affect
health, taxation, employment, foreign affairs, animal welfare and food standards
policy in an attempt to wrest powers back from Brussels.

Foreign governments were invited to submit comments to the review. Almost all
appear to have declined after concluding that it would be unwise to get involved
in such a sensitive debate.

In its submission to the socalled "balance of competences review", the Japanese
government acknowledged that the issue was primarily one for the British people.

However, Tokyo made it clear that it would take a dim view of any significant
change to the status quo: "The government of Japan ... is committed to making
its relationship with the EU stronger than ever before. In this context, it
expects that the UK will maintain a strong voice and continue to play a major
role in the EU. The UK, as a champion of free trade, is a reliable partner for
Japan. More than 1,300 Japanese companies have invested in the UK, as part of
the single market of the EU, and have created 130,000 jobs, more than anywhere
else in Europe. This fact demonstrates that the advantage of the UK as a gateway
to the European market has attracted Japanese investment," it says.

Last night the Japanese embassy in London defended the statement. "We know some
countries decided not to submit comments but as a non-EU nation and major
investor in the UK we thought it was appropriate. We have taken advantage of
this occasion to express our expectations.

.. If the UK leaves the single market, countries investing in the UK and
exporting to the EU would have to pay tariffs, and that is not good news."

However, Hideaki Kase, a diplomatic commentator, described the statement as
"incredible". "It is interference into Britain's domestic politics. It is also
impolite," he said. "I suspect somebody close to [the Japanese prime minister]
Shinzo Abe instructed the embassy to issue that incredible statement, but I
cannot guess who Continued on page 2 ? ? WW

WW Continuedfrom page1 had such a bad idea." Shoichi Nakase, a former senior
executive at Mitsubishi Corp, which employs hundreds of people in the UK, also
described the memo as ill-considered. "I doubt if that represents an outright
interference into domestic politics. But it does not look like an appropriate
thing for an embassy to do."

Tory Eurosceptics insisted the Japanese had no reason to worry-even if Britain
left the EU.

Bernard Jenkin, MP for Harwich and North Essex, said: "Any new relationship with
the EU, even if we leave, is bound to give the UK access to the EU single
market. There is no possibility that the UK will lose access. This has always
been the scare story run by Europhiles, but what government in their right mind
is going to put us in that position?" Andrea Leadsom, a founding member of the
Fresh Start Group of MPs pushing for the return of powers from Brussels to the
UK, said the Japanese were anxious. "It's no secret that the Japanese see their
investment in Britain as an investment in the EU via Britain. The sense in Japan
is that even the uncertainty is having a chilling effect on inward investment
decisions," she said.

However, Europhile Tories said the Japanese analysis was reasonable, and more of
this argument would be heard as the debate on Britain's place in Europe
continued. "The Japanese remark seems to be a perfectly coherent remark that
needs to be taken account of when we get to a referendum," said Sir Tony Baldry,
Tory MP for Banbury.

We need to talk about leaving Europe, Editorial, page 20

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

In/out, in/out, the Brexit battle is shaking us all about;
The debate over a British exit from the EU is hotting up as the sceptics launch
a prize to find a blueprint for leaving and Europhiles hit back, writes Josh
Glancy

BYLINE: Josh Glancy

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 991 words


On a steamy summer's evening last Tuesday, people across Britain were spilling
out of pubs, firing up barbecues and waxing lyrical about the heatwave. But in
Westminster the word on everyone's lips was Brexit, a recently coined
portmanteau that could change the course of British history. Now that David
Cameron has pledged he will give the nation an in/out referendum after the next
general election, is it time to start planning, seriously planning, for a
British exit from the European Union? This is the view of the economic
luminaries who crammed into the Westminster Intercontinental hotel to attend the
launch of the Institute of Economic Affairs' (IEA) Brexit prize.

The free-market think tank is offering (EURO)100,000 (a "symbolic" choice of
currency) to whoever comes up with the best blueprint for a British withdrawal
from the EU, in the event that a 2017 referendum results in a majority "out"
vote. The deadline for initial submissions is mid-September - summer homework
for free-marketeers across the land.

The crowd was addressed by Nigel Lawson, former chancellor and the high priest
of the Brexit movement. Lawson is chairing the prize panel, which includes the
royal historian David Starkey and Roger Bootle, the economist who won last
year's £250,000 Wolfson prize for coming up with the best plan to dismantle the
eurozone. Also present were Stuart Wheeler, the UKIP treasurer, and the
economist Ruth Lea. This is the Brexit aristocracy.

Lawson believes Britain has not done enough serious thinking on what the
implications of a Brexit would be, and the prize will help to "focus the minds"
of the nation on this very real possibility. "If there is going to be a
referendum, then it's very important the issue is debated," he says.

"The psychology of the British people is 'better keep a-hold of nurse for fear
of finding worse'. So it's very important that we can spell out what the
consequences would be. So when a referendum comes, there won't be a great black
box; there will be a route map."

Lawson is bullish about the prospects of Britain outside the EU. Contrary to
suggestions that leaving Europe would diminish Britain's place on the world
stage, he believes our global role would be increased by a closer association
with dynamic emerging economies rather than a sclerotic eurozone.

"Those who say leaving would be Britain turning in on itself are quite wrong.
This would be Britain opening up to the world," he says.

He is also dismissive of the "great misconception" that an independent Britain
would have a similar role to Norway, which is subject to many EU regulations but
does not have many of the benefits that membership confers.

"The extent to which we are ruled by EU legislation will certainly be reduced
once we are outside. And the argument that if we stay in the union we can
influence the argument is now rubbish. We hardly influence the outcome at all."

The presence of Starkey on the IEA's panel acknowledges the potential historical
significance of a Brexit. Many pro-Europeans have argued that for Britain to
leave the EU would fly in the face of history, which has progressed since the
Second World War towards greater international co-operation.

Starkey sees it rather differently, as a potential reversion to Britain's
traditional historical role.

"Since the time of Henry VIII we have been an independent nation state, active
in Europe and a great pioneer of world trade," he says. "We never conceded any
form of jurisdiction over our affairs, which arguably we have done since we
entered Europe, so it would not be in any sense a rupture.

"The idea of Britain being left stranded is misguided. There is nothing to be
frightened of. Britain has been an offshore island since the end of the Roman
empire and has done rather nicely, thank you."

The Brexit brigade are not the only ones honing their arguments for the great
in/out debate. On the other side of the aisle, British Influence - a cross-party
campaign group set up in January by the Europhiles Lord Mandelson, Ken Clarke
and Danny Alexander - published its political manifesto last week.

The group's director, Peter Wilding, believes Britain should be "leading, not
leaving, the EU". He argues that the special relationship with America relies on
"Britain being strong, in a strong European Union".

Wilding thinks much of the EU's problem in Britain is one of perception.
"Brussels is often portrayed as castrating our power and pickpocketing our
wallets," he says. "Many of us feel Britain exercises zero influence in Europe,
but this is not the real story.

"We're at the top table, people are listening to us and we have allies, not
least a strong free-market Germany. People who think we can cut the cord and
suddenly become this piratical Elizabethan state, Switzerland on steroids, are
just not living in the real world."

With the IEA's prize launch, the in/out battle lines in Westminster are becoming
ever more clear. But what does the rest of the nation think? Recent polling by
YouGov suggests that 43% of the country would vote "out" in a referendum and 35%
would vote "in", with the rest undecided.

Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, believes this figure could change
considerably if a referendum took place. "At the moment, when a poll asks about
Europe, it's asking, 'Do I like Europe or not?'," he says. "But in an actual
referendum, it asks, 'Do I feel more confident about my job and my children's
prospects staying in the club?' Then you get a different dynamic. A lot of
people who don't like Europe might fear the reality of life outside."

Much can happen between now and a potential referendum in 2017, but the one
thing the camps agree on is that the public debate must better informed. "It's
time for the public to start testing these two arguments properly," says
Wilding. "So the prize is a good start for the out camp.

Now let battle commence."

''People who think we can become Switzerland on steroids don't live in the real
world

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Gilmore in no mood for reshuffle;
The tanaiste gives short shrift to those calling for ministerial changes, says
Stephen O'Brien

BYLINE: Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 666 words


EAMON GILMORE, the tanaiste, has said he is happy to continue as foreign affairs
minister and has downplayed speculation about a cabinet reshuffle before the
local and European elections next year.

The Labour party leader rejected suggestions that he should move to an economic
ministry, arguing that his expanded Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
portfolio is an economic remit. Gilmore said that ministers have just concluded
a busy sixmonth EU presidency, and were now heading into a budget and the Seanad
referendum campaign. "I think it is important for all members of the government
that they focus on the job that has to be done rather than looking around and
saying, 'Well, are we going to be in a different job in six months?' " he said.

"As a government we have remained focused on what needs to be done and each
minister on their own department.

The question of whether there will be changes or when is not something we have
discussed yet."

The tanaiste claimed his decision to take the expanded Iveagh House portfolio
had been justified by the restoration of Ireland's sullied international
reputation. "At the time this government was formed, we were branded as one of
the Piigs [Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, the EU countries most at
risk of fiscal collapse]," he said.

"We didn't have too many friends around the table in Brussels. I think the
country's reputation is in a far better position now than it was twoand-a-half
years ago.

"The work I am doing is very much about getting economic recovery. Diplomacy is
economic ... the diplomatic work of my department has been about rebuilding the
bridges and creating the space to conduct negotiations with the European Central
Bank [and] the European Commission."

Gilmore is confident Ireland will secure "retrospective recapitalisation" of the
banking sector, but not before the middle of next year. The government wants a
writedown on the (EURO)32bn Ireland borrowed to bail out AIB, Bank of Ireland
and Permanent TSB, but cannot advance the claim until the EU has bedded down
banking union next year.

"The single supervisory mechanism is timetabled for around Easter 2014; it is
only after that that the issue will become live," the tanaiste said. "My
confidence is borne from the fact that what we have set out to achieve on the
renegotiation of the [bailout] programme and on the banking side we have
achieved.

"We have proven over a number of rounds of these negotiations that we have an
ability to deliver. People said, 'You'll never get a [one-point] reduction in
the interest rate.' We got a 2.5% reduction. On the promissory note, people said
we'd come a cropper; again, we've renegotiated that. Between the prom note and
the extension of the maturities [on troika lending], it has reduced our
borrowing requirement by about (EURO)40bn.

"The critical policy decision to separate bank and sovereign debt [in June 2012]
and ensure we had written into the script the provision that the Irish situation
would be looked at because it is a well-performing programme ... That is where
the retroactivity comes in."

The Labour leader said his duties as tanaiste in a coalition government
accounted for most of his working week. He says every issue coming before
cabinet comes through his office and that he liaises with taoiseach Enda Kenny
to "work on issues as they come before government".

The tone of the tanaiste's remarks and his focus on the packed political agenda
for the remainder of 2013 suggest there is little room for a government
reshuffle ahead of next summer's local and European elections.

Gilmore accepted that his party has lost popular support because of difficult
decisions the government has taken "in the national interest". However, he
believed there would be an electoral reward in securing economic recovery.

"[We] take difficult decisions in the short term, suffer unpopularity in the
short term, but do the right thing, the necessary thing. What was the
alternative? Letting us go over the cliff?"

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gilmore says the economic recovery will appease voters
BRYAN MEADE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

BRITAIN NEEDS TO TALK ABOUT LEAVING EUROPE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 472 words


British withdrawal from the European Union would be a huge event. The organisers
of the new Brexit prize, which offers (EURO)100,000 for the best blueprint for
Britain outside the EU, may be guilty of a little hyperbole when they say it
would be comparable to the fall of the Berlin Wall and the subsequent collapse
of Soviet communism. They are not wrong to emphasise its importance, however. A
referendum decision that the British people could be taking in a few years' time
could profoundly change Britain and Europe.

Ahead of the publication this week of the first phase of the British
government's review of the balance of EU competences, the Japanese government
has ruffled feathers by setting out its own position. It has suggested that up
to 1,300 Japanese firms could review their investments in Britain and up to
130,000 jobs could be at risk in the event of withdrawal.

Some will take offence at a foreign government apparently interfering in what
should be a decision for the British people, assuming that there will be a
referendum in 2017. Others will also remember that sections of Japanese big
business also once called upon Britain to join the euro. The Brexit prize will
mainly attract entries for individuals and organisations sympathetic to the
withdrawal argument but there is another side. Opinion from every quarter should
be weighed carefully.

There is also much more scope for the British government to advise and inform on
this crucial issue. The question of euro membership was an important front in
the battle between Gordon Brown and Tony Blair. It did, however, produce in 2003
a comprehensive official assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of
joining the single currency.

The British need to be similarly informed on the pros and cons of EU membership,
going well beyond the balance of competences review. The debate may become
bitter indeed if the eurozone's troubles continue to drag the continent into the
mire. A series of official papers would not resolve all the questions but would
help to set the parameters of the debate.

It would also flush out, more precisely than vague talk about the repatriation
of powers from Brussels, where the Cameron government thinks the real problems
lie. Maybe its reluctance to do so is because it would expose deep splits within
its ranks. Last week Danny Alexander, the Treasury chief secretary and former
press officer for Britain in Europe, described EU membership as "one of the
central pillars of British prosperity and security". Some would say there may
not be a referendum, so why waste resources on something that might never
happen? But until it is known what the pros and cons of membership are and what
the consequences would be of leaving the EU and establishing a looser
relationship with Europe, British ministers will be operating in the dark.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

In/out, in/out, the Brexit battle is shaking us all about;
The debate over a British exit from the EU is hotting up as the sceptics launch
a prize to find a blueprint for leaving and Europhiles hit back, writes Josh
Glancy

BYLINE: Josh Glancy

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 991 words


On a steamy summer's evening last Tuesday, people across Britain were spilling
out of pubs, firing up barbecues and waxing lyrical about the heatwave. But in
Westminster the word on everyone's lips was Brexit, a recently coined
portmanteau that could change the course of British history. Now that David
Cameron has pledged he will give the nation an in/out referendum after the next
general election, is it time to start planning, seriously planning, for a
British exit from the European Union?

This is the view of the economic luminaries who crammed into the Westminster
Intercontinental hotel to attend the launch of the Institute of Economic
Affairs' (IEA) Brexit prize.

The free-market think tank is offering (EURO)100,000 (a "symbolic" choice of
currency) to whoever comes up with the best blueprint for a British withdrawal
from the EU, in the event that a 2017 referendum results in a majority "out"
vote. The deadline for initial submissions is mid-September - summer homework
for free-marketeers across the land.

The crowd was addressed by Nigel Lawson, former chancellor and the high priest
of the Brexit movement. Lawson is chairing the prize panel, which includes the
royal historian David Starkey and Roger Bootle, the economist who won last
year's £250,000 Wolfson prize for coming up with the best plan to dismantle the
eurozone. Also present were Stuart Wheeler, the UKIP treasurer, and the
economist Ruth Lea. This is the Brexit aristocracy.

Lawson believes Britain has not done enough serious thinking on what the
implications of a Brexit would be, and the prize will help to "focus the minds"
of the nation on this very real possibility. "If there is going to be a
referendum, then it's very important the issue is debated," he says.

"The psychology of the British people is 'better keep a-hold of nurse for fear
of finding worse'. So it's very important that we can spell out what the
consequences would be. So when a referendum comes, there won't be a great black
box; there will be a route map."

Lawson is bullish about the prospects of Britain outside the EU. Contrary to
suggestions that leaving Europe would diminish Britain's place on the world
stage, he believes our global role would be increased by a closer association
with dynamic emerging economies rather than a sclerotic eurozone.

"Those who say leaving would be Britain turning in on itself are quite wrong.
This would be Britain opening up to the world," he says.

He is also dismissive of the "great misconception" that an independent Britain
would have a similar role to Norway, which is subject to many EU regulations but
does not have many of the benefits that membership confers.

"The extent to which we are ruled by EU legislation will certainly be reduced
once we are outside. And the argument that if we stay in the union we can
influence the argument is now rubbish. We hardly influence the outcome at all."

The presence of Starkey on the IEA's panel acknowledges the potential historical
significance of a Brexit. Many pro-Europeans have argued that for Britain to
leave the EU would fly in the face of history, which has progressed since the
Second World War towards greater international co-operation.

Starkey sees it rather differently, as a potential reversion to Britain's
traditional historical role.

"Since the time of Henry VIII we have been an independent nation state, active
in Europe and a great pioneer of world trade," he says. "We never conceded any
form of jurisdiction over our affairs, which arguably we have done since we
entered Europe, so it would not be in any sense a rupture.

"The idea of Britain being left stranded is misguided. There is nothing to be
frightened of. Britain has been an offshore island since the end of the Roman
empire and has done rather nicely, thank you."

The Brexit brigade are not the only ones honing their arguments for the great
in/out debate. On the other side of the aisle, British Influence - a cross-party
campaign group set up in January by the Europhiles Lord Mandelson, Ken Clarke
and Danny Alexander - published its political manifesto last week.

The group's director, Peter Wilding, believes Britain should be "leading, not
leaving, the EU". He argues that the special relationship with America relies on
"Britain being strong, in a strong European Union".

Wilding thinks much of the EU's problem in Britain is one of perception.
"Brussels is often portrayed as castrating our power and pickpocketing our
wallets," he says. "Many of us feel Britain exercises zero influence in Europe,
but this is not the real story.

"We're at the top table, people are listening to us and we have allies, not
least a strong free-market Germany. People who think we can cut the cord and
suddenly become this piratical Elizabethan state, Switzerland on steroids, are
just not living in the real world."

With the IEA's prize launch, the in/out battle lines in Westminster are becoming
ever more clear. But what does the rest of the nation think? Recent polling by
YouGov suggests that 43% of the country would vote "out" in a referendum and 35%
would vote "in", with the rest undecided.

Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, believes this figure could change
considerably if a referendum took place. "At the moment, when a poll asks about
Europe, it's asking, 'Do I like Europe or not?'," he says. "But in an actual
referendum, it asks, 'Do I feel more confident about my job and my children's
prospects staying in the club?' Then you get a different dynamic. A lot of
people who don't like Europe might fear the reality of life outside."

Much can happen between now and a potential referendum in 2017, but the one
thing the camps agree on is that the public debate must better informed. "It's
time for the public to start testing these two arguments properly," says
Wilding. "So the prize is a good start for the out camp.

Now let battle commence."

''People who thinkwe can become Switzerland on steroids don't live in the real
world

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

ONE STEP CLOSER TO REFERENDUM ON ABORTION;
ESTABLISHED 1822 ; thesundaytimes.ie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 646 words


The passage through the Dail of the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Bill was
a red-letter event for Ireland. After 30 years of what the late Judge Niall
McCarthy of the Supreme Court decried as "inexcusable" inaction, our legislators
finally summoned the courage to tackle the most emotive issue on this country's
moral agenda.

The sight of a majority of TDs walking through the Tá lobby last week to support
legislation providing for abortion in limited circumstances was encouraging.
Among them were practising Catholics voting under threat of excommunication, and
politicians who had been subjected to vituperative lobbying. Enda Kenny, the
taoiseach, said he received plastic foetuses in the post, and letters written in
blood branding him "a murderer". It is to Ireland's benefit that his private
faith and fidelity to the common good were strong enough to withstand this
avalanche of brimstone.

Lest we forget, this bill was not about individual politicians' career ladders
but about the lives and health of girls and women, a point reinforced when the
UK's Department of Health published its annual abortion figures on Thursday.
They revealed that 3,982 women who underwent abortions last year gave Irish
addresses. The actual number is likely to be higher as some give British
addresses in order to avail of post-abortion healthcare in that jurisdiction.

Increasingly, too, women are travelling to other European countries for
abortions. The new legislation will not stem that exodus. As long as the
abortion ban in Article 40.3.3 remains in the Irish constitution, we will go on
exporting crisis pregnancies. We will continue to expect other countries to
facilitate Irish women's human rights entitlement to health, safety and dignity,
while we feel morally superior for constitutionally denying them here. In recent
months Lucinda Creighton, as junior minister for European affairs, attracted
sustained media attention as she intimated that her anti-abortion views would
not permit her to vote for the government's bill, thus relinquishing the Fine
Gael party whip and her junior ministry. Other women had less freedom of choice
when they were faced with the issue of abortion. Miss X, whose Supreme Court
case in 1992 set the legislative bar, was 14 when she was raped and hauled
before the courts. Her consistent refusal to give media interviews suggests she
possesses a strong character. She would have needed it during these past months,
as campaigners publicly disputed her state of mind in 1992. The only way to
ensure no more girls or women are reduced to constitutional guinea pigs is to
revoke Article 40.3.3. Traumatic as this debate has been for politicians, it has
been worse for many of the approximately 120,000 women who slipped quietly
abroad since 1983 to end their pregnancies.

They include A, B and C, who took cases to the European Court of Human Rights,
culminating in the 2010 judgment that led to this bill. We await to see if the
new bill meets the court's requirements. Whether it does or not is secondary to
the bill's failure to meet the requirements for equality in Ireland's republic.
Women will still be treated as second-class citizens. The state still requires
rape victims to carry their resulting pregnancies to term. It requires the same
of women who suffer chronic ill health as a result of their pregnancies, and of
women carrying foetuses with fatal abnormalities. Opinion polls now show the
Irish public takes a more compassionate view of these cases than does the law.
The large majorities favouring a non-absolutist abortion regime emboldened
politicians to produce this bill. Now that the Rubicon has been crossed, the
next step should be a referendum to rid the constitution of its ban on abortion.
Politicians should be encouraged by the knowledge that, not only are the people
behind them, they are far ahead of them too.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 7, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tapes distract us from state's broken record

BYLINE: MATT COOPER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1101 words


There have been some people bemoaning that Ireland's "successful" presidency of
the Council of the European Union was besmirched somehow in its final week by
the broadcast of what have become known as the Anglo tapes. The argument goes
that the government successfully rehabilitated our standing in the EU by doing a
more than competent job with the presidency, but much of the goodwill accruing
from that achievement was negated by the recordings.

It is tempting to highlight the embarrassment caused by rogue bankers singing
Deutschland über alles and swearing like dockers as they discussed duping all
who got in their path at a cost of tens of billions of euros - but if anything,
the release of the tapes did an effective job in deflecting attention from what
was effectively a government failure.

Who cares if our officials didn't spill their soup during dinner functions,
delivered bland speeches that deliberately offended nobody at grandly titled
summits, or put manners on delegates who squabbled at meetings? So what if Enda
Kenny proclaims us to be "truly, madly, deeply European", in what must rank as
one of the most nauseating ass-kisses delivered by an Irish leader to the EU?
What we wanted from the presidency is the one thing we didn't get: a refund on
the state's recapitalisation of the bust private banks.

That, remember, was the none-toosubtle message of the government towards the end
of 2012. We would use the presidency to convince the rest of the EU how
on-message we are and will continue to be. We'd be both brilliant and loyal and
then the money would be forthcoming.

It seems we never learn. Ireland is being tolerated by the big powers, nothing
more - regardless of how often we bend the knee.

Our relationship with the EU was damaged by our rejection of the first vote on
the Lisbon treaty in 2008 and then sundered by the circumstances of the blanket
bank guarantee later that year. All attempts to make up since - including a
referendum that enshrined the union's Stability and Growth Pact and its
arbitrary borrowing restrictions into our constitution - have achieved very
little.

That's not to say the Anglo tapes have made things any easier for a government
that must know the next recapitalisation of the banks - at a cost of up to
(EURO)30bn - will require further help from Europe. That hasn't prevented Fine
Gael from trying to profit from the Anglo controversy before belatedly trying to
put a lid on it.

There has been much speculation as to who was responsible for leaking the tapes
to the media. Could it have been a disgruntled garda who knows charges are never
likely to be brought? A friend of the Quinns who wants to undermine Anglo in the
public eye before civil proceedings against the family begin? Or even agents of
the government who can use the tapes for political gain? We may never know, but
it doesn't stop the conspiracy theories.

The tapes have served a purpose for our leaders in that they remind Europeans we
are as much the victims of this perfidy as they are. We may have been foolish in
how we dealt with the banking crisis, but what could we do when confronted by
this contemptuous knavery? Eamon Gilmore says the tapes have made the cutting of
a deal with the EU on our bank debt even harder to achieve. In reality, they've
made no difference at all. We weren't getting a deal but it does no harm to
pretend it was the Anglo tapes that wrecked our chances.

More important to a government reeling from declining public support, and
frustrated that it is being punished for cleaning up the last administration's
mess, is the opportunity to use the anger over the tapes to its own advantage.
The approach is two-fold: deflect attention from its own failings and then
divert it back onto Fianna Fail.

This political posturing is the reason the government is opting for a
parliamentary inquiry that will have neither the scope nor powers for
alternative options. The content of the tapes, at least those released so far,
does not support the "axis of collusion" line pedalled by Kenny, but no matter.
As far as the government is concerned, all the public needs is the reminder that
Fianna Fail was in power when the disastrous bank guarantee was introduced and
the state surrendered its economic sovereignty to the EU/ International Monetary
Fund/European Central Bank troika. In case voters have forgotten these important
facts, the parliamentary inquiry will remind them - even if it achieves little
else.

It is now clear that a banking inquiry that stops at the events surrounding the
guarantee is only a small part of what we need. We would all welcome the facts
about the two years leading up to September 2008 but why aren't we also being
told the truth about events in the intervening period, culminating in the sudden
liquidation of Anglo Irish Bank's successor, IBRC, in February this year? There
are many unknowns about the running of Anglo after it was nationalised,
particularly how it went about chasing its debts. Given how handsomely
Australian Mike Aynsley was rewarded for his sojourn in Dublin to manage the
bank for the state, he should not object to a return visit to explain himself at
a sworn inquiry - even if it does play to the Quinn narrative that it was a
victim of Anglo's management both before and after nationalisation.

The same questions apply to the other main Irish banks: how have Allied Irish
Banks and Bank of Ireland dealt with their customers? The stated point of the
bank guarantee, after all, was to leave us with a properly functioning banking
system. It is anything but. The behaviour of the banks, in failing to deal with
the residential mortgage crisis and restricting the flow of new credit, has been
central to the failure to resuscitate the economy.

Regardless of the hand it was dealt, the government still presides over an
economy that is banjaxed. Six years of austerity are getting us nowhere and we
still have two more years of tax increases and spending cuts to come.
Unemployment, emigration and falling living standards remain rife. Officially,
we have tipped back into recession, but in reality we never came out of
long-term depression. Despite improved competitiveness we are not getting the
export-led recovery we expected due to a weak global economy. The domestic
economy is crocked because of high levels of debt among the cash-strapped and a
reluctance to spend by those with money.

All of which takes the gloss off those government boasts about meeting, and even
exceeding, budget targets. Faced with that reality, the Anglo tapes were a very
useful diversion indeed.

matt.cooper@sunday-times.ie

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 7, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

You can take the [...];
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 71 words


You can take the prime minister out of Eton, but you can never quite remove Eton
from the prime minister. During Friday's EU referendum debate, David Cameron
reminded MPs that Ed Miliband's briefing notes had been left "in the loo".
Perhaps remembering that "loo" might not play well in working-class marginals,
he quickly corrected himself to "in the toilet". At home, of course, Dave just
pops out to attend the privy council.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

TALE OF THE TAPES;
The Anglo recordings have pushed public anger to a tipping point, where demand
for an inquiry is overwhelming, say Sarah McInerney and Stephen O'Brien

BYLINE: Sarah McInerney ;Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1882 words


After rooting through a stack of files in his office last Wednesday, Charlie
Flanagan found the letter he was seeking. The chairman of the Fine Gael
parliamentary party felt a rush of anger as he read aloud the message he had
sent to the garda commissioner in April 2009.

Then Fine Gael's spokesman on justice, Flanagan had written to Fachtna Murphy to
express concern at the slow pace of the investigation into suspected criminal
activity in Ireland's bailed-out banks. Did the investigative team have all the
resources and expertise it needed, Flanagan asked. Was the full strength of the
Garda Bureau of Fraud Investigation being deployed? "I was worried at the time
that things were not moving fast enough," he said last week. "Never did I
imagine we would find ourselves, four years later, without one person having
stood trial in relation to the banking scandal."

Flanagan is not alone in his anger. The nation was convulsed by publication of
calls between senior executives in Anglo Irish Bank as they plotted to trick the
state, and Brian Lenihan, then the finance minister, into accepting the
September 2008 bank guarantee. David Drumm, then Anglo's chief executive,
bragged about going to the Central Bank with "arms swinging" to demand "moolah"
to prop up his collapsing institution.

Worse, perhaps, was the mocking rendition of Deutschland uber alles by John
Bowe, Anglo's director of capital markets.

The insult made the front pages of German national newspapers last week and
prompted Angela Merkel, the chancellor, to express her "contempt".

Throughout all the reportage, both domestic and international, ran the
infuriating truth: no one has been held accountable for bringing the Irish
economy to its knees. Five years later, the Anglo tapes have reignited a dormant
dissatisfaction among Irish people, a desire for justice that has been stoked by
five austerity budgets. As the sniggering of Bowe and Drumm was endlessly
replayed on news bulletins last week, all eyes turned to Enda Kenny. It was time
for action. What was the taoiseach going to do about it? KENNY'S initial
response was regarded as lacklustre and uninspiring.

Faced with an indignant opposition in the Dail last Tuesday morning, the
taoiseach resorted to partisan pops at Fianna Fail's role in the bank guarantee.

"In his defence, it doesn't make a lot of sense that people are suddenly so
angry," one senior Fine Gael figure said afterwards. "The tapes are disgusting,
but we knew the banks duped us. That is not new. We've already had three reports
on this."

One was carried out by Patrick Honohan, the governor of the Central Bank, who
deplored the lack of regulation, but did not name anyone responsible. A second,
by Max Watson, an English academic, and Klaus Regling, a senior EU official,
mainly considered the economic backdrop to the banking crisis. Peter Nyberg, a
Finnish finance expert, also focused on the failure of the banking system
without apportioning individual blame. All three reports were largely ignored by
the public. None provoked a reaction like last week's. According to Pete Lunn, a
behavioural economist with the Economic and Social Research Institute, that's
because people have to see and hear to believe.

"Numerous studies have shown that beliefs and attitudes are much more strongly
influenced by hearing stories or by lived experiences than by solid data or
statistical information," he said. "We all know Anglo cost us (EURO)30bn. We
know that is (EURO)18,000 per household in the country. You would think this
sounds like an incredibly persuasive reason to be angry about what happened. But
exposure to the people who caused those losses is much more likely to affect
people's attitudes than just telling them the facts."

With the public baying for blood, Kenny pointed to the work by Brendan Howlin,
the public expenditure minister, on legislation to allow an Oireachtas inquiry
into the banking crisis. Critics claimed this approach was flawed because the
government lost a 2011 referendum to give more powers of investigation to
Oireachtas committees. Any parliamentary banking inquiry is constitutionally
prohibited from making findings that could adversely affect the good name of any
non-office holder or nonmember of the Oireachtas - that is, bankers or
regulators.

"The people on [the Anglo] tapes cannot be held to account by a Dail committee,
an Oireachtas hearing or parliamentary inquiry," said Micheál Martin, the Fianna
Fail leader. "That is a fundamental drawback in what is being proposed."

Government TDs, too, have reservations about how effective an inquiry can be.
"For this to work, we would need the cooperation of the bankers, and I've seen
nothing to make me believe they will co-operate," said Flanagan. "The director
of corporate enforcement had to take Anglo to court to get them to waive legal
privilege over documents for his investigation. Why would we expect a
parliamentary inquiry to get treated any differently?" Howlin told The Sunday
Times the inquiry has the power to subpoena "every Irish citizen and anyone
resident in Ireland", but that may exclude Drumm, who is living in America.

Howlin also said anyone who has been charged with an offence related to the
banking crisis could not appear before the committee. This means Seán
Fitzpatrick, the former Anglo chairman, will not be questioned, as he has been
charged with failing to make disclosures to the bank's auditors about loans he
received. So what use is a banking inquiry that doesn't question the chairman or
chief executive of Anglo - the most toxic bank of all - and cannot make adverse
findings against bankers? Tony Foley, a lecturer in eco-economics in Dublin
nomics City University, believes it can still serve a purpose. "I would go with
an Oireachtas inquiry to establish the facts," he said. "Did all the banks "
believe that the situation was much worse than they pre-pretended to government
or did tended the government know the situa-situation was a disaster and simply
tion wanted to help out their rich friends and shareholders?" Howlin, too,
believes the inquiry can be effective without making adverse findings.

"People didn't need the Irish Independent [which published the Anglo tapes] to
write an editorial to draw conclusions for them; the bold facts allow people
come to their own conclusions," he said. "What should happen is a peeling away
of the facts so that people can see how a bank in freefall seduced the Irish
state into underwriting a sum they knew was far greater than they represented.

"The inquiry can summon thepeople involved and ask them direct questions. Who
was present? What was the legal advice? What was the degree of knowledge of each
individual member of the cabinet? Let's hear all of that."

Another senior government figure said the power of a tele-televised inquiry was
not to be vised underestimated."There are people who will never tell their story
to the press but they will talk to an Oireachtas inquiry - people like Brian
Cowen - [former taoiseach] or Patrick Neary [former reg-regulator] or Kevin
Cardiff [a ulator] former secretary general in the Department of Finance], and
lots of officials we don't know about. We will finally hear their stories."

Lunn believes such an "  inquiry would be cathartic. "Ifwe want Irish society to
reach a settled understanding of what happened, we need to hear directly from
the people involved," he said. "In order to move on, from a psychological
perspective, it is as important to hear from those people as it is to have a
technical inquiry that is focused on making findings."

David Farrell, a professor of politics in University College Dublin, disagrees.
"The Irish people want and deserve a proper investigative inquiry with real
outcomes, and I don't think they'll be satisfied with anything less," he said.

Howlin and other ministers admit it would have been much better had the
referendum been passed to allow a more robust investigation. Colm McCarthy, an
influential economist, is among those who have suggested the government rerun
the referendum. Howlin said he is not "against the idea" but another vote would
set the inquiry back by at least a year.

Many believe that even if there were a successful referendum, an Oireachtas
committee is not the proper vehicle for a banking inquiry. Could it handle the
sheer quantity of work? The Anglo tapes, alone, run to thousands of hours. One
senior government figure shrugged away this concern. "How do you eat an
elephant?" he asked. "One piece at a time."

Indeed, Howlin's plan is to break the inquiry into modules, with a report at the
end of each.

There are questions, too, about whether politicians are qualified to hold a
banking inquiry, even with the support of lawyers and forensic accountants.

"Politicians are advocates, not lawyers or investigators," said Flanagan. "By
and large, we are adversarial and break down on party lines. That has to be
taken into account."

The danger of a partisan inquiry is one of the reasons Fianna Fail says it is
opposed to the government's proposal. It has argued for a tribunal of inquiry
chaired by a judge and whose proceedings would be broadcast.

Neither the government nor the public seem to have any appetite for another
tribunal, however.

Many government TDs believe there is no need for any further inquiry; that
efforts should be focused on criminal investigations. Labour's Michael McNamara
and John Gilroy have put down a motion for this week's parliamentary party
meeting proposing that a dedicated garda task force be established, "led by an
assistant commissioner, resourced with senior legal advisers, accountants,
banking experts and other professional advisers as deemed necessary", to
investigate suspected criminal activity in the banks. "The public is not
interested in a parliamentary inquiry, they are interested in seeing people put
in jail," said McNamara.

"Enda Kenny wants to make Ireland the best small country in the world to do
business.

A better strategy would be make sure Ireland isn't the best small country in the
world to commit fraud."

Flanagan believes the government should set up a panel of specialists, led by a
judge, to determine why no one has stood trial yet. "What the public really
wants are convictions," he said.

The inherent danger is that with so many people talking about the Anglo tapes,
which contain potential evidence, and demanding prison sentences, any
forthcoming trials of bankers could be prejudiced.

In 2000, remarks by Mary Harney, then the tanaiste, that Charles Haughey, a
former taoiseach, should be convicted and jailed led to the indefinite
postponement of his trial for obstructing the McCracken tribunal. Kevin Haugh, a
circuit court judge, ruled there was a real and substantial risk that Haughey
would not get a fair trial, citing both Harney's comments and the circulation of
leaflets in Dublin with the slogan "jail the corrupt politicians".

Yesterday it was reported the Irish Independent had been contacted by the
director of public prosecutions, which expressed concerns about the potential
consequences of publication of some Anglo tapes. In demanding to hear the truth
about what happened in 2008 the Irish public needs to be careful not to hand
"Get out of Jail Free" cards to people they want to be held accountable.

Matt Cooper, page 15

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drumm, the insouciant face of the bank, left, outraged the public.
Clockwise inset from top left: Cowen, Fitzpatrick, Neary, Merkel, Bowe and
Lenihan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Abortion law should be decided by public, not politicians

BYLINE: JUSTINE McCARTHY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1097 words


He's a shrewd moneybags, but I like him all the same. Our paths occasionally
cross near where I clamber off the bus and he runs an unobtrusive gold mine of a
business. "This abortion bill," he said the other morning, "you know there's no
time limit in it? They'll be able to abort the baby two weeks before it's due."

"In that case, it'd be a delivery," I said. "They'd be delivering the baby at 38
weeks, not aborting it."

"But, sure, they'd only be interested in the abortion," he said.

As I walked on, I made excuses for him in my head. The most convincing was that
he's too preoccupied making moolah to deploy his undeniable intelligence to
challenge the myriad inanities incubated in the debate about the Protection of
Life during Pregnancy Bill. How else to explain why a nice man would imagine
obstetricians and midwives are waiting to pounce in the delivery room like
hooded grim reapers with poised scythes? In a public interview in Dalkey a
fortnight ago, Carl Bernstein, one of the two journalists who broke the
Watergate story in the Washington Post, lamented a modern-day disincentive to
good journalism. He maintained that people no longer want "the best attainable
truth" from journalism. They want facts to reinforce their already entrenched
ideological positions. In Ireland in the past eight months, anti-abortion
campaigners have excelled in dishing out those "facts".

When the HSE's report on Savita Halappanavar's death was published,
anti-abortion advocates selectively quoted its finding of clinical failures in
her treatment at Galway University Hospital. This tactic triggered the recycling
of the accusation that anyone dissenting from their absolutism had cynically
used Savita's death to argue for abortion on demand. This was to blindly ignore
another of the report's findings - that there had been an overemphasis in
Savita's hospital care on a perceived constitutional ban on intervention before
the foetal heart stopped beating. It is the sort of legal grey area the European
Court of Human Rights wants Ireland to clarify.

In the same vein, the Life Institute and Youth Defence have insisted there was
consensus among expert witnesses at the Oireachtas health committee hearings
that abortion is not a treatment for suicide - as if anybody ever said it was.
It makes as much sense as claiming Panadol cures neurological disorders, though
you'd be awfully glad of one if you had a splitting headache. This mantra
neglects other evidence heard by the committee that, though rare, suicide is a
leading cause of the small number of deaths that occur during pregnancy.

The threat is a real one. Last November, Dublin city coroner Brian Farrell said
there were indications of suicide, though it could not be proven beyond
reasonable doubt, in the case of Anna Byrne. A young mother who suffered from
depression, she was 38 weeks pregnant with twins when her body was found in the
sea at Howth in March 2012.

In 1992, the judges of the Supreme Court heard evidence that Ms X, the pregnant
14-year-old girl, had told her mother she wanted to throw herself downstairs and
had contemplated jumping in front of an oncoming train. Anti-abortion advocates
have rubbished the court's landmark judgment in the X case, on the grounds that
it heard no expert psychiatric evidence. So what should the judges have done?
Told the girl to get a grip, go home and give birth to her rapist's baby?
Medieval as it sounds, this is precisely what the Irish state will continue to
tell rape victims after the current bill has passed into law. Should they
attempt to terminate their pregnancies on Irish soil, they will be liable to
arrest, trial and 14 years in prison. Even children and females with
intellectual disabilities are not exempt from the mercilessness. The proposed
14-year sentence compares with average prison sentences for rape of five to
seven years, according to a study by Katharina Ó Cathaoir of the judicial
researchers' office, part of the Courts Service. Contrary to last year's call by
the UN rapporteur for states to decriminalise abortion, Ireland is planning to
make it even more punitive. This bill will not protect the health, as opposed to
the lives, of pregnant females. It contains no safeguards against long-term
injury, thus giving females a second-class entitlement to human rights. Nor will
it show compassion to females carrying foetuses diagnosed with fatal
abnormalities. Women who choose not to wait for death to intervene will still
have to sneak out of Ireland as if they were criminals.

The bill is a dangerous mix of political expediency, misogyny and cop-out. It is
as much an Irish solution to an Irish problem as Charlie Haughey's famously
derided familyplanning bill. While Enda Kenny has admirably withstood episcopal
threats of excommunication, the taoiseach has also made substantial concessions
to appease a vocal minority, including Big Brother's monitoring presence in the
operating theatre.

Within Fine Gael, the vocal anti-abortion minority is disproportionately large
compared with the big majority of voters who favour less restrictive
legislation. Most people polled believe abortions should be available to rape
victims and in cases of non-viable foetuses, but this is not reflected in the
bill.

There was some stirring oratory in the Dail debate on abortion last Thursday. It
was clear that a considerable number of TDs want to broaden the availability of
abortion but recognise it is constitutionally and politically problematic.

The debate coincided with Judge John Quirke's report on Magdalene laundries and
with a protest by survivors of symphysiotomy, the barbaric cutting of women's
pelvises in childbirth. In both those maternityrelated scandals, it took the
victims' own persistence and the abandonment of their anonymity to bring about
political change. Must we wait for another traumatised, raped girl to be hauled
before the law courts? What will it take to get politicians to do what many of
them patently know is the right thing? On both sides of the debate, there is
acknowledgement that another referendum must be held on the eighth amendment,
which has caused so much personal distress and national upheaval since its
insertion in Bunreacht na hEireann in 1983. Next autumn's referendum on the
abolition of the Seanad presents an opportunity to ask voters one simple
question: should the eighth amendment be revoked? Surely, allowing the people to
speak is the best way of attaining the truth, whether we like it or not.

justine.mccarthy@sunday-times.ie

'THERE IS ACKNOWLEDGEMENT ANOTHER REFERENDUM MUST BE HELD'

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bosses back EU sceptics;
DIGEST

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


The former chairman of Intercontinental Hotels and the founder of JD Wetherspoon
have added their names to a campaign for the renegotiation of Britain's EU
membership.

David Webster and Tim Martin are among 250 figures who have signed up to
Business for Britain. On Friday the Commons will debate a private members' bill
on an EU referendum, put forward by James Wharton, a Tory eurosceptic.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour splits over EU referendum

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 650 words


ED MILIBAND was under pressure this weekend over his policy on Europe as a new
opinion poll showed a slump in Labour's lead to just 5 points over the Tories.

The Labour leader is facing calls from his own party to abandon his opposition
to a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union. He insists that
pledging an in/out vote is the wrong priority in the current financial climate
and could jeopardise trade. But a number of senior Labour figures are privately
urging him to rethink, warning that refusing to offer a referendum could
backfire.

Miliband's position on the issue is under fresh scrutiny ahead of a Commons vote
on a private members' bill paving the way for a referendum before 2017. The
proposed legislation by the Tory MP James Wharton is being backed by the
Conservative party leadership.

Miliband argues that pledging to hold an in/out referendum would create "four
years of uncertainty and a 'closed for business' sign above our country". But he
has repeatedly refused to rule out offering a vote in future.

In a sign of the deep divisions over the issue within Labour, party whips have
instructed their MPs to stay away from the debate. Labour party strategists
argue that since the bill is not backed by the Liberal Democrats it has no hope
of becoming law and is therefore a waste of time.

Many Labour MPs privately believe the party's position on Europe is
unsustainable while the front bench is split. It has emerged that Miliband has
not held any shadow cabinet discussion about the subject in recent weeks.

One senior Labour source said: "There has not been any serious shadow cabinet
discussion about this. It's not surprising Ed wants to avoid it because when it
happens it will expose serious differences."

Some Labour MPs and peers have begun drawing up proposals for a referendum
either just before or just after the election. They are expected to be included
in amendments to Wharton's bill that would be debated in the autumn.

They believe this could outflank David Cameron's pledge to wait until the end of
2017 and gain support from Tory rebels who do not want to wait four years before
the vote.

Senior Labour figures who support a referendum are understood to include Ed
Balls, the shadow chancellor, and Jon Cruddas, who heads the party's policy
review and has previously declared his backing for a vote. Others include Ivan
Lewis, the shadow culture secretary, Jon Trickett, who holds the Cabinet Office
portfolio, Maria Eagle, the shadow transport secretary, and her sister Angela
Eagle, shadow leader of the Commons.

Last week Lord Wood, the shadow minister without portfolio, became the first
figure in Miliband's inner circle in recent months to suggest the party may be
open-minded about a referendum. He told the Huffington Post that it was
"conceivable" the party would offer a referendum and it would need to "make a
judgment" before the 2015 election.

Opponents of a referendum are led by Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign
secretary.

This weekend's YouGov poll for The Sunday Times shows how far Miliband has to go
to be seen as a possible prime minister, with Labour on 38%, five points ahead
of the Conservatives.

The Labour lead is at its smallest since November 2012.

Peter Kellner, YouGov's president, says this points to a hung parliament rather
than an overall majority for Labour.

The poll also shows that among the over-60s and the 18 to 24-year-olds the
Tories lead Labour by 37% to 31%, underlining research this month which found
support for the Conservatives among the under-30s had more than doubled over the
past five years.

Although the Tories are overwhelmingly Eurosceptic, one of its leading
pro-European figures hit back this weekend.

Lord Hurd, the former foreign secretary, predicted in an interview with The
Observer that in 10 years' time Britain would still be in the EU and would be
contemplating membership of the single currency.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Labour split on EU as poll lead slumps

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words


ED MILIBAND was under pressure this weekend over his policy on Europe as a new
opinion poll showed a slump in Labour's lead to just five points over the
Tories.

The Labour leader is facing calls from his own party to abandon his opposition
to a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union.

He insists that pledging an in/out vote is the wrong priority in the current
financial climate and could jeopardise trade. But a number of senior Labour
figures are privately urging him to rethink, warning that refusing to offer a
referendum could backfire.

Miliband's position on the issue is under fresh scrutiny ahead of a Commons vote
on a private members' bill paving the way for a referendum before 2017. The
proposed legislation by the Tory MP James Wharton is being backed by the
Conservative party leadership.

Miliband argues that pledging to hold an in/out referendum would create "four
years of uncertainty and a 'closed for business' sign above our country". But he
has repeatedly refused to rule out offering a vote in future.

In a sign of the deep divisions over the issue within Labour, party whips have
instructed their MPs to stay away from the debate. Labour party strategists
argue that since the bill is not backed by the Liberal Democrats it has no hope
of becoming law and is therefore a waste of time.

Many Labour MPs privately believe the party's position on Europe is
unsustainable while the front bench is split. It has emerged that Miliband has
not held any shadow cabinet discussion about the subject in recent weeks.

One senior Labour source said: "There has not been any serious shadow cabinet
discussion about this. It's not surprising Ed wants to avoid it because when it
happens it will expose serious differences."

Some Labour MPs and peers have begun drawing up proposals for a referendum
either just before or just after the election. They are expected to be included
in amendments to Wharton's bill that would be debated in the autumn.

They believe this could outflank David Cameron's pledge to wait until the end of
2017 and gain support from Tory rebels who do not want to wait four
"conceivable" the party would offer a referendum and it would need to "make a
judgment" before the 2015 election.

Opponents of a referendum are led by Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign
secretary.

This weekend's YouGov poll for The Sunday Times shows how far Miliband has to go
to be seen as a possible prime minister, with Labour on 38%, five points ahead
of the Conservatives.

The Labour lead is at its smallest since November 2012.

Peter Kellner, YouGov's president, says this points to a hung parliament rather
than an overall majority for Labour.

The poll also shows that among the over-60s and the 18 to 24-year-olds the
Tories lead Labour by 37% to 31%, underlining research this month which found
support for the Conservatives among the under-30s had more than doubled over the
past five years.

Although the Tories are overwhelmingly Eurosceptic, one of its leading
pro-European figures hit back this weekend.

Lord Hurd, the former foreign secretary, predicted in an interview with The
Observer that in 10 years' time Britain would still be in the EU and would be
contemplating membership of the single currency.

years before the vote.

Senior Labour figures who support a referendum are understood to include Ed
Balls, the shadow chancellor, and Jon Cruddas, who heads the party's policy
review and has previously declared his backing for a vote. Others include Ivan
Lewis, the shadow culture secretary, Jon Trickett, who holds the Cabinet Office
portfolio, Maria Eagle, the shadow transport secretary, and her sister Angela
Eagle, shadow leader of the Commons.

Last week Lord Wood, the shadow minister without portfolio, became the first
figure in Miliband's inner circle in recent months to suggest the party may be
open-minded about a referendum. He told the Huffington Post that it was

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Bosses back EU sceptics;
DIGEST

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


The former chairman of Intercontinental Hotels and the founder of JD Wetherspoon
have added their names to a campaign for the renegotiation of Britain's EU
membership.

David Webster and Tim Martin are among 250 figures who have signed up to
Business for Britain. On Friday the Commons will debate a private members' bill
on an EU referendum, put forward by James Wharton, a Tory eurosceptic.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Abortion law should be decided by public, not politicians

BYLINE: JUSTINE McCARTHY

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1097 words


He's a shrewd moneybags, but I like him all the same. Our paths occasionally
cross near where I clamber off the bus and he runs an unobtrusive gold mine of a
business. "This abortion bill," he said the other morning, "you know there's no
time limit in it? They'll be able to abort the baby two weeks before it's due."

"In that case, it'd be a delivery," I said. "They'd be delivering the baby at 38
weeks, not aborting it."

"But, sure, they'd only be interested in the abortion," he said.

As I walked on, I made excuses for him in my head. The most convincing was that
he's too preoccupied making moolah to deploy his undeniable intelligence to
challenge the myriad inanities incubated in the debate about the Protection of
Life during Pregnancy Bill. How else to explain why a nice man would imagine
obstetricians and midwives are waiting to pounce in the delivery room like
hooded grim reapers with poised scythes? In a public interview in Dalkey a
fortnight ago, Carl Bernstein, one of the two journalists who broke the
Watergate story in the Washington Post, lamented a modern-day disincentive to
good journalism. He maintained that people no longer want "the best attainable
truth" from journalism. They want facts to reinforce their already entrenched
ideological positions. In Ireland in the past eight months, anti-abortion
campaigners have excelled in dishing out those "facts".

When the HSE's report on Savita Halappanavar's death was published,
anti-abortion advocates selectively quoted its finding of clinical failures in
her treatment at Galway University Hospital. This tactic triggered the recycling
of the accusation that anyone dissenting from their absolutism had cynically
used Savita's death to argue for abortion on demand. This was to blindly ignore
another of the report's findings - that there had been an overemphasis in
Savita's hospital care on a perceived constitutional ban on intervention before
the foetal heart stopped beating. It is the sort of legal grey area the European
Court of Human Rights wants Ireland to clarify.

In the same vein, the Life Institute and Youth Defence have insisted there was
consensus among expert witnesses at the Oireachtas health committee hearings
that abortion is not a treatment for suicide - as if anybody ever said it was.
It makes as much sense as claiming Panadol cures neurological disorders, though
you'd be awfully glad of one if you had a splitting headache. This mantra
neglects other evidence heard by the committee that, though rare, suicide is a
leading cause of the small number of deaths that occur during pregnancy.

The threat is a real one. Last November, Dublin city coroner Brian Farrell said
there were indications of suicide, though it could not be proven beyond
reasonable doubt, in the case of Anna Byrne. A young mother who suffered from
depression, she was 38 weeks pregnant with twins when her body was found in the
sea at Howth in March 2012.

In 1992, the judges of the Supreme Court heard evidence that Ms X, the pregnant
14-year-old girl, had told her mother she wanted to throw herself downstairs and
had contemplated jumping in front of an oncoming train. Anti-abortion advocates
have rubbished the court's landmark judgment in the X case, on the grounds that
it heard no expert psychiatric evidence. So what should the judges have done?
Told the girl to get a grip, go home and give birth to her rapist's baby?
Medieval as it sounds, this is precisely what the Irish state will continue to
tell rape victims after the current bill has passed into law. Should they
attempt to terminate their pregnancies on Irish soil, they will be liable to
arrest, trial and 14 years in prison. Even children and females with
intellectual disabilities are not exempt from the mercilessness. The proposed
14-year sentence compares with average prison sentences for rape of five to
seven years, according to a study by Katharina Ó Cathaoir of the judicial
researchers' office, part of the Courts Service. Contrary to last year's call by
the UN rapporteur for states to decriminalise abortion, Ireland is planning to
make it even more punitive. This bill will not protect the health, as opposed to
the lives, of pregnant females. It contains no safeguards against long-term
injury, thus giving females a second-class entitlement to human rights. Nor will
it show compassion to females carrying foetuses diagnosed with fatal
abnormalities. Women who choose not to wait for death to intervene will still
have to sneak out of Ireland as if they were criminals.

The bill is a dangerous mix of political expediency, misogyny and cop-out. It is
as much an Irish solution to an Irish problem as Charlie Haughey's famously
derided familyplanning bill. While Enda Kenny has admirably withstood episcopal
threats of excommunication, the taoiseach has also made substantial concessions
to appease a vocal minority, including Big Brother's monitoring presence in the
operating theatre.

Within Fine Gael, the vocal anti-abortion minority is disproportionately large
compared with the big majority of voters who favour less restrictive
legislation. Most people polled believe abortions should be available to rape
victims and in cases of non-viable foetuses, but this is not reflected in the
bill.

There was some stirring oratory in the Dail debate on abortion last Thursday. It
was clear that a considerable number of TDs want to broaden the availability of
abortion but recognise it is constitutionally and politically problematic.

The debate coincided with Judge John Quirke's report on Magdalene laundries and
with a protest by survivors of symphysiotomy, the barbaric cutting of women's
pelvises in childbirth. In both those maternityrelated scandals, it took the
victims' own persistence and the abandonment of their anonymity to bring about
political change. Must we wait for another traumatised, raped girl to be hauled
before the law courts? What will it take to get politicians to do what many of
them patently know is the right thing? On both sides of the debate, there is
acknowledgement that another referendum must be held on the eighth amendment,
which has caused so much personal distress and national upheaval since its
insertion in Bunreacht na hEireann in 1983. Next autumn's referendum on the
abolition of the Seanad presents an opportunity to ask voters one simple
question: should the eighth amendment be revoked? Surely, allowing the people to
speak is the best way of attaining the truth, whether we like it or not.

justine.mccarthy@sunday-times.ie

'THERE IS ACKNOWLEDGEMENT ANOTHER REFERENDUM MUST BE HELD'

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Labour splits over EU referendum

BYLINE: Jack Grimston Deputy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 650 words


ED MILIBAND was under pressure this weekend over his policy on Europe as a new
opinion poll showed a slump in Labour's lead to just 5 points over the Tories.

The Labour leader is facing calls from his own party to abandon his opposition
to a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union. He insists that
pledging an in/out vote is the wrong priority in the current financial climate
and could jeopardise trade. But a number of senior Labour figures are privately
urging him to rethink, warning that refusing to offer a referendum could
backfire.

Miliband's position on the issue is under fresh scrutiny ahead of a Commons vote
on a private members' bill paving the way for a referendum before 2017. The
proposed legislation by the Tory MP James Wharton is being backed by the
Conservative party leadership.

Miliband argues that pledging to hold an in/out referendum would create "four
years of uncertainty and a 'closed for business' sign above our country". But he
has repeatedly refused to rule out offering a vote in future.

In a sign of the deep divisions over the issue within Labour, party whips have
instructed their MPs to stay away from the debate. Labour party strategists
argue that since the bill is not backed by the Liberal Democrats it has no hope
of becoming law and is therefore a waste of time.

Many Labour MPs privately believe the party's position on Europe is
unsustainable while the front bench is split. It has emerged that Miliband has
not held any shadow cabinet discussion about the subject in recent weeks.

One senior Labour source said: "There has not been any serious shadow cabinet
discussion about this. It's not surprising Ed wants to avoid it because when it
happens it will expose serious differences."

Some Labour MPs and peers have begun drawing up proposals for a referendum
either just before or just after the election. They are expected to be included
in amendments to Wharton's bill that would be debated in the autumn.

They believe this could outflank David Cameron's pledge to wait until the end of
2017 and gain support from Tory rebels who do not want to wait four years before
the vote.

Senior Labour figures who support a referendum are understood to include Ed
Balls, the shadow chancellor, and Jon Cruddas, who heads the party's policy
review and has previously declared his backing for a vote. Others include Ivan
Lewis, the shadow culture secretary, Jon Trickett, who holds the Cabinet Office
portfolio, Maria Eagle, the shadow transport secretary, and her sister Angela
Eagle, shadow leader of the Commons.

Last week Lord Wood, the shadow minister without portfolio, became the first
figure in Miliband's inner circle in recent months to suggest the party may be
open-minded about a referendum. He told the Huffington Post that it was
"conceivable" the party would offer a referendum and it would need to "make a
judgment" before the 2015 election.

Opponents of a referendum are led by Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign
secretary.

This weekend's YouGov poll for The Sunday Times shows how far Miliband has to go
to be seen as a possible prime minister, with Labour on 38%, five points ahead
of the Conservatives.

The Labour lead is at its smallest since November 2012.

Peter Kellner, YouGov's president, says this points to a hung parliament rather
than an overall majority for Labour.

The poll also shows that among the over-60s and the 18 to 24-year-olds the
Tories lead Labour by 37% to 31%, underlining research this month which found
support for the Conservatives among the under-30s had more than doubled over the
past five years.

Although the Tories are overwhelmingly Eurosceptic, one of its leading
pro-European figures hit back this weekend.

Lord Hurd, the former foreign secretary, predicted in an interview with The
Observer that in 10 years' time Britain would still be in the EU and would be
contemplating membership of the single currency.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Scroungers beware: Crybaby is getting tough;
LIAM BYRNE ; Labour's welfare spokesman has been moved to tears by people's
plight but thinks he can be harder than the Tories without getting nasty

BYLINE: ISABEL OAKESHOTT

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1358 words


Down a dirty red brick alley daubed with graffiti, Liam Byrne's office is the
perfect setting for a politician who aspires to transform broken Britain.

If the shadow secretary of state for work and pensions is in danger of getting
out of touch in the corridors of power, hanging out here is the perfect
antidote. It's a dismal suburbia of tatty flats above fast-food joints, bargain
basement furniture outlets and jobless youths loitering on chewing gum-studded
pavements.

The Labour constituency of Birmingham Hodge Hill has the second-highest
unemployment rate in the country. Every time Byrne holds a surgery he meets
people whose lives are so hopeless that he has been moved to tears.

"It is often really emotional. I remember when I did my first surgeries here,
going home and just crying my eyes out. It's just so, so sobering. You know the
difficulties many people find themselves in, but when you are face to face with
it, [it] is very humbling. When you are desperately trying to help people in the
most awful circumstances, it reminds you constantly about why you're in this
business: to try to make a difference to people's lives," he says sadly.

Can this be the same Liam Byrne who, as a minister in Gordon Brown's government,
penned an extraordinarily pompous memo to staff detailing when they should bring
him coffee and soup? ("I like a cappuccino when I come in, an espresso at 3pm
and soup at 12.30-1pm ... The room should be cleared before I arrive in the
morning ... If I see things that are not of acceptable quality, I will blame
you.") That notorious list of do's and don'ts for mandarins still haunts him,
but opposition seems to have spiked the old arrogance. He says he has changed.

"Oh yes. I have seasoned a lot. These days I have to nurture the staff!" As
evidence, he trots off to fetch cups of tea and serves slices of rich moist
chocolate cake that he baked himself. "My staff are getting fatter!" he grins:
baking is his new hobby. It is a surprise he has the time: as well as the
challenges of his constituency he has just written a book on Britain's
relationship with China. He also has three children.

It is his responsibility for Labour's approach to the welfare state that
attracts the most scrutiny, particularly in the wake of the party leadership's
sudden shift to a tougher stance on benefit culture. For three years under Ed
Miliband the party has created the impression that it is doggedly opposed to
most of Iain Duncan Smith's toughest measures to rein in spending, making a huge
fuss about the iniquities of the £26,000 benefits cap, the crackdown on
incapacity benefit and taxpayers funding social housing with spare bedrooms. But
the polls consistently showed voters backed Duncan Smith's stance.

Now Miliband and Byrne are trying to say they would be even tougher than the
coalition on layabouts who exploit the system.

"People don't think the system is fair at the moment. It's still too easy to get
away with things. We have to send out a really clear message that you can't live
on benefits. Under us, after two years on the dole you'd have to get a job,"
Byrne says.

It is hard to imagine he could be tougher on scroungers than Duncan Smith, who
relishes doing battle with the workshy, approaching his mission with the zeal of
one who devoted years in the political wilderness to exploring the true causes
of deprivation and joblessness.

Yet Byrne claims Duncan Smith's flagship welfare reforms have been a gigantic
flop: long-term unemployment has risen by 100,000 since 2010; official
statistics suggest that just 3% of people going through the US-style work
programme, for which there were such high hopes, get jobs that last at least six
months.

Now Byrne is trying to out-tough Duncan Smith without sounding like the "nasty
party". He talks of promoting both a "work ethic and a care ethic".

"Most people in this country do believe that old biblical nostrum: we are our
brother's keeper. When you get things like the bedroom tax, which rips neighbour
from neighbour, it doesn't feel right. If [cutting spending] means vulnerable
people who need help are denied help..." He pauses for effect, looking pained.
"It doesn't feel right," he says.

That kind of talk plays well with his own party, a hard core of whom still
refuse to accept the case for welfare reform. Byrne faces a battle to convince
them that, as he puts it, "there's nothing left-wing about ... an unsustainable
social security budget". It is this tension that lies behind the party
leadership's belated conversion to the "iron discipline" they now talk about in
relation to welfare spending. It has been harder than Byrne lets on.

He knows it will get even harder when he talks specifics, of which there are
few. A suggestion - hastily retracted - by Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, last
weekend that a Labour government might cut pensions prompted howls of protest
from the grassroots. Byrne has pledged to end the winter fuel allowance for
wealthier old folk, but exactly how the party would further rein in welfare
spending is a mystery. Attempts to pin Byrne down are met with bamboozling
references to "triple locks" and house-building programmes, as if the coalition
has not thought of that. What he is saying may make some sense to pointy heads,
but to many it will seem unconvincing and vague.

Perhaps that is why so far the tough talk has had almost no effect on the polls.
This weekend Labour's standard 10-point lead over the Tories has dwindled to
seven points.

Byrne roars with laughter at the suggestion that the new positioning has
backfired. "Ah, the polls, the polls ..." he says, adding there are still two
years to go before the general election. Pressed on why his party is not doing
better when both the governing parties are in such disarray, he tries to dismiss
it as a "general frustration with politics".

"I am actually happy, I suppose, that the lead is so much. [Labour's] 29% at the
last general election was a horror story. Two-thirds of working people thought
we were out of touch.

For the 'people's party' that was a hell of an achievement," he says.

What some of his colleagues privately fear is that Miliband is failing to
convince voters he is a prime minister-in-waiting. Byrne says Miliband has done
an "extraordinary job" but there is a long way to go.

With European elections looming next year, Britain's relationship with the EU is
likely to dominate any Miliband roadshow. Some in the party believe he is making
a serious strategic mistake in opposing an in/out referendum. As soon as I raise
the subject, Byrne makes a beeline for the door, saying he is just getting more
tea. He is fully signed up to the policy, but his little break allows him to get
his lines straight - it is a highly sensitive subject.

While I wait I look around his spartan office with its paper-thin walls and
linoleum floors. He has made half-hearted efforts to cheer it up, with some
framed newspaper cuttings of election victories and a few colourful knick-knacks
from his trips to China. Proudly displayed on a shelf, and looking hugely out of
place, are his old ministerial red boxes, proof that he was once much more
important than the surroundings suggest. There is also a prominent photograph of
him with Tony Blair. I search in vain for pictures of Miliband. Publicly Byrne
is studiously loyal to the party leader; ideologically it is no secret that he
would have been more comfortable with Miliband's Blairite brother David.
Outside, the traffic thunders by.

Byrne reappears with the tea and launches into a vigorous defence of the "no
referendum" policy.

"It's just the wrong priority now," he says. "We will jeopardise inward
investment [and] we will jeopardise exports if we put our membership of the
world's single biggest free trade club in doubt. Given our economy is in the
tank and growth is weak, that would be a big mistake ... It would be economic
disaster."

Whatever his doubts about Miliband, when it comes to the leader's approach to
Europe Byrne is a true believer. Whether voters feel the same way remains to be
seen.

Turning to Face the East: How Britain can Prosper in the Asian Century by Liam
Byrne is out now

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ADRIAN SHERRATT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Boris: does City need Europe?;
DIGEST

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words


Boris Johnson has commissioned a report from his chief economic adviser on the
pros and cons for London of Britain's membership of the European Union.

Regulation of the City will be at the heart of the investigation, along with the
broader economic impact of EU membership. Johnson, the mayor of London, has
asked for the report ahead of a possible referendum on Britain's relationship
with Brussels.

Gerard Lyons, who was hired by the mayor last year from Standard Chartered bank,
has assembled a team at City Hall to produce the report.

"Given London's place at the forefront of the European and global economy, we
need to better understand any issues and their implications," said Lyons.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Scroungers beware: Crybaby is getting tough;
LIAM BYRNE ; Labour's welfare spokesman has been moved to tears by people's
plight but thinks he can be harder than the Tories without getting nasty

BYLINE: ISABEL OAKESHOTT

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1358 words


Down a dirty red brick alley daubed with graffiti, Liam Byrne's office is the
perfect setting for a politician who aspires to transform broken Britain.

If the shadow secretary of state for work and pensions is in danger of getting
out of touch in the corridors of power, hanging out here is the perfect
antidote. It's a dismal suburbia of tatty flats above fast-food joints, bargain
basement furniture outlets and jobless youths loitering on chewing gum-studded
pavements.

The Labour constituency of Birmingham Hodge Hill has the second-highest
unemployment rate in the country. Every time Byrne holds a surgery he meets
people whose lives are so hopeless that he has been moved to tears.

"It is often really emotional. I remember when I did my first surgeries here,
going home and just crying my eyes out. It's just so, so sobering. You know the
difficulties many people find themselves in, but when you are face to face with
it, [it] is very humbling. When you are desperately trying to help people in the
most awful circumstances, it reminds you constantly about why you're in this
business: to try to make a difference to people's lives," he says sadly.

Can this be the same Liam Byrne who, as a minister in Gordon Brown's government,
penned an extraordinarily pompous memo to staff detailing when they should bring
him coffee and soup? ("I like a cappuccino when I come in, an espresso at 3pm
and soup at 12.30-1pm ... The room should be cleared before I arrive in the
morning ... If I see things that are not of acceptable quality, I will blame
you.") That notorious list of do's and don'ts for mandarins still haunts him,
but opposition seems to have spiked the old arrogance. He says he has changed.

"Oh yes. I have seasoned a lot. These days I have to nurture the staff!" As
evidence, he trots off to fetch cups of tea and serves slices of rich moist
chocolate cake that he baked himself. "My staff are getting fatter!" he grins:
baking is his new hobby. It is a surprise he has the time: as well as the
challenges of his constituency he has just written a book on Britain's
relationship with China. He also has three children.

It is his responsibility for Labour's approach to the welfare state that
attracts the most scrutiny, particularly in the wake of the party leadership's
sudden shift to a tougher stance on benefit culture. For three years under Ed
Miliband the party has created the impression that it is doggedly opposed to
most of Iain Duncan Smith's toughest measures to rein in spending, making a huge
fuss about the iniquities of the £26,000 benefits cap, the crackdown on
incapacity benefit and taxpayers funding social housing with spare bedrooms. But
the polls consistently showed voters backed Duncan Smith's stance.

Now Miliband and Byrne are trying to say they would be even tougher than the
coalition on layabouts who exploit the system.

"People don't think the system is fair at the moment. It's still too easy to get
away with things. We have to send out a really clear message that you can't live
on benefits. Under us, after two years on the dole you'd have to get a job,"
Byrne says.

It is hard to imagine he could be tougher on scroungers than Duncan Smith, who
relishes doing battle with the workshy, approaching his mission with the zeal of
one who devoted years in the political wilderness to exploring the true causes
of deprivation and joblessness.

Yet Byrne claims Duncan Smith's flagship welfare reforms have been a gigantic
flop: long-term unemployment has risen by 100,000 since 2010; official
statistics suggest that just 3% of people going through the US-style work
programme, for which there were such high hopes, get jobs that last at least six
months.

Now Byrne is trying to out-tough Duncan Smith without sounding like the "nasty
party". He talks of promoting both a "work ethic and a care ethic".

"Most people in this country do believe that old biblical nostrum: we are our
brother's keeper. When you get things like the bedroom tax, which rips neighbour
from neighbour, it doesn't feel right. If [cutting spending] means vulnerable
people who need help are denied help..." He pauses for effect, looking pained.
"It doesn't feel right," he says.

That kind of talk plays well with his own party, a hard core of whom still
refuse to accept the case for welfare reform. Byrne faces a battle to convince
them that, as he puts it, "there's nothing left-wing about ... an unsustainable
social security budget". It is this tension that lies behind the party
leadership's belated conversion to the "iron discipline" they now talk about in
relation to welfare spending. It has been harder than Byrne lets on.

He knows it will get even harder when he talks specifics, of which there are
few. A suggestion - hastily retracted - by Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, last
weekend that a Labour government might cut pensions prompted howls of protest
from the grassroots. Byrne has pledged to end the winter fuel allowance for
wealthier old folk, but exactly how the party would further rein in welfare
spending is a mystery. Attempts to pin Byrne down are met with bamboozling
references to "triple locks" and house-building programmes, as if the coalition
has not thought of that. What he is saying may make some sense to pointy heads,
but to many it will seem unconvincing and vague.

Perhaps that is why so far the tough talk has had almost no effect on the polls.
This weekend Labour's standard 10-point lead over the Tories has dwindled to
seven points.

Byrne roars with laughter at the suggestion that the new positioning has
backfired. "Ah, the polls, the polls ..." he says, adding there are still two
years to go before the general election. Pressed on why his party is not doing
better when both the governing parties are in such disarray, he tries to dismiss
it as a "general frustration with politics".

"I am actually happy, I suppose, that the lead is so much. [Labour's] 29% at the
last general election was a horror story. Two-thirds of working people thought
we were out of touch.

For the 'people's party' that was a hell of an achievement," he says.

What some of his colleagues privately fear is that Miliband is failing to
convince voters he is a prime minister-in-waiting. Byrne says Miliband has done
an "extraordinary job" but there is a long way to go.

With European elections looming next year, Britain's relationship with the EU is
likely to dominate any Miliband roadshow. Some in the party believe he is making
a serious strategic mistake in opposing an in/out referendum. As soon as I raise
the subject, Byrne makes a beeline for the door, saying he is just getting more
tea. He is fully signed up to the policy, but his little break allows him to get
his lines straight - it is a highly sensitive subject.

While I wait I look around his spartan office with its paper-thin walls and
linoleum floors. He has made half-hearted efforts to cheer it up, with some
framed newspaper cuttings of election victories and a few colourful knick-knacks
from his trips to China. Proudly displayed on a shelf, and looking hugely out of
place, are his old ministerial red boxes, proof that he was once much more
important than the surroundings suggest. There is also a prominent photograph of
him with Tony Blair. I search in vain for pictures of Miliband. Publicly Byrne
is studiously loyal to the party leader; ideologically it is no secret that he
would have been more comfortable with Miliband's Blairite brother David.
Outside, the traffic thunders by.

Byrne reappears with the tea and launches into a vigorous defence of the "no
referendum" policy.

"It's just the wrong priority now," he says. "We will jeopardise inward
investment [and] we will jeopardise exports if we put our membership of the
world's single biggest free trade club in doubt. Given our economy is in the
tank and growth is weak, that would be a big mistake ... It would be economic
disaster."

Whatever his doubts about Miliband, when it comes to the leader's approach to
Europe Byrne is a true believer. Whether voters feel the same way remains to be
seen.

Turning to Face the East: How Britain can Prosper in the Asian Century by Liam
Byrne is out now

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ADRIAN SHERRATT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Boris considers EU exit as Tories push for vote

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words


BORIS JOHNSON has raised the prospect of Britain leaving the European Union by
ordering advisers to draw up a balance sheet of the pros and cons of the effect
on the City.

The mayor of London has given his chief economic adviser the task of sounding
out key City figures on the potential impact of withdrawal.

Gerard Lyons, a former bank economist, is to produce an economic and financial
report focusing on how London would fare if Britain's relationship with Brussels
changed, looking at a number of possibilities, including exit.

Writing to colleagues at City Hall, Lyons says he has been given a year to
produce his findings, in consultation with representatives from the mayor's
office and from the Greater London Authority economics, business and
international relations teams.

Johnson's decision to commission the report will please Eurosceptic Tory MPs,
suggesting that the mayor is ready to contemplate exit from the EU. David
Cameron has made it clear he believes Britain should retain membership, but has
committed to renegotiating the relationship.

The move comes as the Conservatives begin attempts this week to pass legislation
through parliament guaranteeing an in/out referendum by the end of 2017.

A private member's bill put forward by the backbencher James Wharton, MP for
Stockton South, will be introduced into the Commons on Wednesday. Official
supporters of the bill include Cameron and William Hague, the foreign secretary.

Other MPs sponsoring the bill show its breadth of support in the Tory party.
They include Graham Brady, chairman of the party's 1922 committee of
backbenchers; Sir Gerald Howarth, representing the older generation of
Eurosceptics; and Zac Goldsmith, chosen as a younger sceptic.

Representing the Tory right is Liam Fox, the former defence secretary, while Sir
Tony Baldry, MP for North Oxfordshire, appears to represent the party's left
wing.

Two MPs - Jackie Doyle-Price and Sheryll Murray - represent marginal seats in
different parts of the country, as well as female backbenchers. Guto Bebb, a
Welsh MP, is the sole non-English representative among the sponsors. The bill
will be debated on July 5. Labour has advised its MPs they do not need to attend
the session, which will be held on Friday when members would usually be in their
constituencies.

Wharton remains optimistic that the bill stands a chance of success because,
with a group of Labour MPs as well as the Tories and Northern Ireland Unionists
backing it, the legislation could win a majority in parliament.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Boris floats idea of EU exit

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 226 words


Jack Grimston BORIS JOHNSON has raised the prospect of Britain leaving the
European Union by ordering advisers to draw up a balance sheet of the pros and
cons of the effect on the City.

The mayor of London has given his chief economic adviser the task of sounding
out key City figures on the potential impact of withdrawal. Gerard Lyons, a
former bank economist, is to produce an economic and financial report focusing
on how London would fare if Britain's relationship with Brussels changed,
looking at a number of possibilities, including exit.

Johnson's decision to commission the report will please Eurosceptic Tory MPs,
suggesting that the mayor is ready to contemplate exit from the EU. David
Cameron has made it clear he believes Britain should retain membership, but has
committed to renegotiating the relationship.

The move comes as the Conservatives begin attempts this week to pass legislation
through parliament guaranteeing an in/out referendum by the end of 2017.

A private member's bill put forward by James Wharton will be introduced on
Wednesday. Official supporters of the bill include Cameron and William Hague,
the foreign secretary.

The bill will be debated on July 5. Wharton is optimistic because, with a group
of Labour MPs as well as the Tories and Northern Ireland Unionists backing it,
the legislation could win a majority in parliament.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Boris: does City need Europe?;
DIGEST

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words


Boris Johnson has commissioned a report from his chief economic adviser on the
pros and cons for London of Britain's membership of the European Union.

Regulation of the City will be at the heart of the investigation, along with the
broader economic impact of EU membership. Johnson, the mayor of London, has
asked for the report ahead of a possible referendum on Britain's relationship
with Brussels.

Gerard Lyons, who was hired by the mayor last year from Standard Chartered bank,
has assembled a team at City Hall to produce the report.

"Given London's place at the forefront of the European and global economy, we
need to better understand any issues and their implications," said Lyons.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Boris considers EU exit as Tories push for vote

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words


BORIS JOHNSON has raised the prospect of Britain leaving the European Union by
ordering advisers to draw up a balance sheet of the pros and cons of the effect
on the City.

The mayor of London has given his chief economic adviser the task of sounding
out key City figures on the potential impact of withdrawal.

Gerard Lyons, a former bank economist, is to produce an economic and financial
report focusing on how London would fare if Britain's relationship with Brussels
changed, looking at a number of possibilities, including exit.

Writing to colleagues at City Hall, Lyons says he has been given a year to
produce his findings, in consultation with representatives from the mayor's
office and from the Greater London Authority economics, business and
international relations teams.

Johnson's decision to commission the report will please Eurosceptic Tory MPs,
suggesting that the mayor is ready to contemplate exit from the EU. David
Cameron has made it clear he believes Britain should retain membership, but has
committed to renegotiating the relationship.

The move comes as the Conservatives begin attempts this week to pass legislation
through parliament guaranteeing an in/out referendum by the end of 2017.

A private member's bill put forward by the backbencher James Wharton, MP for
Stockton South, will be introduced into the Commons on Wednesday. Official
supporters of the bill include Cameron and William Hague, the foreign secretary.

Other MPs sponsoring the bill show its breadth of support in the Tory party.
They include Graham Brady, chairman of the party's 1922 committee of
backbenchers; Sir Gerald Howarth, representing the older generation of
Eurosceptics; and Zac Goldsmith, chosen as a younger sceptic.

Representing the Tory right is Liam Fox, the former defence secretary, while Sir
Tony Baldry, MP for North Oxfordshire, appears to represent the party's left
wing.

Two MPs - Jackie Doyle-Price and Sheryll Murray - represent marginal seats in
different parts of the country, as well as female backbenchers. Guto Bebb, a
Welsh MP, is the sole non-English representative among the sponsors. The bill
will be debated on July 5. Labour has advised its MPs they do not need to attend
the session, which will be held on Friday when members would usually be in their
constituencies.

Wharton remains optimistic that the bill stands a chance of success because,
with a group of Labour MPs as well as the Tories and Northern Ireland Unionists
backing it, the legislation could win a majority in parliament.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Creighton backs role for Seanad;
Seanad reform rebels

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 558 words


LUCINDA CREIGHTON, the European affairs minister, said this weekend that she
stands by her view that there is "an obvious role for the Seanad" in the
scrutiny of EU legislation, writes Sarah McInerney.

Creighton originally made her opinion known at the Oireachtas committee on
European Affairs just four weeks ago.

She told The Sunday Times that she still holds this position, despite the
forthcoming referendum to abolish the upper house. "That has always been my
view," she said.

At the committee meeting, Creighton said she believed the Seanad could "mirror
the role of the House of Lords in the UK, and mirror upper houses in many other
member states".

"It would enhance the level of scrutiny that I firmly support," she said. "I
urge [senators] to pursue it doggedly because there is an obvious gap that could
be filled very effectively by the Seanad."

Creighton's views put her at odds with Enda Kenny, the taoiseach, who last week
said the Seanad was an outmoded and ineffective institution that had "ceased to
be relevant".

Despite this, the European affairs minister said she was "very supportive" of
Kenny's decision to hold the referendum in early October. "At the end of the day
the people will decide on the future of the Seanad," she said.

Creighton is one of a number of government TDs to publicly express a view
different from the official government position on the Seanad abolition.

Last week, Emmet Stagg, the Labour chief whip, and Joanna Tuffy, a Labour TD,
said they would be voting against the referendum in the ballot box, while the
majority of government senators said they were against the proposed abolition.

One senior Fine Gael member, who did not wish to be named, said it had been a
"horrific start" to the government campaign. "We've been beaten in every debate
this week, we've had our own people publicly contradicting the taoiseach, and
there's a general sense that we were not prepared at all," he said. "I'm
actually not in favour of keeping the Seanad, but I'm still not going

to go out canvassing two weeks before the budget to put some of my friends out
of a job. If I won't do it, what about the TDs who actually want to keep the
Seanad? It's a mess."

Shane Ross, an independent TD, is seeking to put a Seanad reform bill before the
Dail to force those anti-abolition government TDs to "vote with their
convictions". Ross has put an amendment down on the order paper for the Seanad
abolition legislation, which will be debated at second stage in the Dail on
Thursday.

"At the moment we have an extraordinary situation where if the referendum is
defeated, we'll be back to the old Seanad without any reform," he said. "I want
to force those government TDs who have said they believe in a reformed Seanad to
vote for the reform bill to be included in the referendum legislation if the
Seanad is retained."

The campaign against the Seanad abolition will get a further boost tomorrow,
when Micheál Ó Muircheartaigh, the former RTE Gaelic games commentator, will
join Democracy Matters, a civil society group opposed to the referendum. Ó
Muircheartaigh will make a speech about the Seanad at a Democracy Matters event
in Smock Alley Theatre in Dublin's Temple Bar.

Oliver Callan, a comedian and mimic, will also perform at the event, along with
actors who will recite some of the most important speeches in the Seanad's
history.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 2, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

THIS WEEK WHY NOT...

SECTION: SUNDAY;FEATURES; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 277 words


SEE SOME WAR HEROES IN ACTION The Irish Red Cross are hosting a photographic
exhibition, Women and War, at the Powerscourt Gallery in Dublin. Running until
the end of the month, the collection of more than 40 photographs portrays women
in war situations over the past two decades.

Taken in places like Pakistan, Somalia and Sierra Leone, they bear witness to
the suffering, resilience and incredible dignity of women in war zones.
redcross.ie GO TO PLAY IN A PARK Starting tomorrow, the Trinity College Dublin
Shakespeare Festival is the largest outdoor theatre festival in the country.
Venues range from the leafy calm of Iveagh Gardens to the hustle and bustle of
Temple Bar. About 60 events, including staged excerpts, madrigals, film
screenings and lectures, will take place over six days, and it's all free.
dublinshakespeare.com ESCORT THE FAMILY TO A FORD FIESTA Roddy Doyle and Jim
Sheridan are just two of the movers and shakers paying tribute to a movie legend
at this week's John Ford Ireland Film Symposium. Starting on Thursday, the
four-day event includes screenings and interviews in honour of one of the
world's most enigmatic and highly decorated directors. Held at various venues
around Dublin, many of the events are free. johnfordireland.org TAKE IN A FRENCH
VACATION De Gaulle: A Quiet Holiday is an exhibition charting the French
president's trip to Ireland in 1969. After losing a referendum on senate reform,
the 78-year-old resigned his office and embarked on a tour of Co Kerry,
Connemara and Co Down with his wife Yvonne. The photo journal is on display at
European Union House on Dublin's Dawson Street until June 21. ambafrance-ie.org

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

No swivelling eyes, but a young Tory Tea Party in revolt;
In delving into the party's grassroots in search of the aged 'loons' said to be
resisting the PM's agenda, Ross Clark finds an altogether more vigorous group

BYLINE: Ross Clark

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1113 words


The Marquis Wellington, a mock-Tudor pub on the fringes of Leicester city
centre, is not a bad place to go looking for what a close confidant of David
Cameron is said to have referred to as "swivel-eyed loons". Its upstairs rooms,
which sit behind gilded bow windows festooned with the date 1907, are a
favourite watering hole of the city's Conservative Association.

Here, then, is the provincial power base that is supposedly thwarting Cameron's
modernising agenda. In the eyes of the prime minister's circle, it seems, it is
a dwindling band of septuagenarian Nimbys with beer froth on their grey
moustaches, who spend their time banging on about Europe, quivering at the
thought of immigrants and turning puce over gay marriage.

It is an image slightly spoilt by the fact that the chairman of Leicester
Conservatives is 25. What is more, Simon Whelband, who has organised tonight's
"pint and politics" evening, is in favour of gay marriage and claims that far
from suffering from falling numbers as the old and faithful die off, party
numbers are growing, especially among the young.

"Two years ago the local party was very typical, with functions for old ladies,"
he says. "But we've had 30 new members sign up in the past week. Many of them
are Asian, who joined up after an Asian candidate won a local government
by-election."

Is there anything in particular that inspired them to join the Conservatives? "A
lot of them don't like Keith Vaz."

Not every town, of course, has enjoyed a membership bounce based on a dislike of
Vaz, the long-serving Labour MP for Leicester East.

Nationally, the demographic of the Conservative party is looking dire. While the
party does not publish official membership figures, a research paper published
by the House of Commons library last December estimated the party's membership
at between 130,000 and 150,000, down from 400,000 in the mid-1990s and 3m in the
1950s.

The serious point about this month's "loon" remarks (which are denied by Lord
Feldman, the Cameroon supposedly responsible) was that membership has dwindled
to the point at which it is no longer representative of the general population
but is made up disproportionately of older people with reactionary views.

In the mid-1950s, one in 15 of the British population belonged to the
Conservative party - a huge cross-section of society; Leicester Conservative
Association's 300 members now represent less than one-thousandth of the city's
330,000 population.

The reduced memberships of constituency parties are not all elderly, however. In
Leicester, as in many places, the Conservative party has a membership with the
constitution of a poorly filled sandwich: there are two thick slices on the top
and bottom, but meagre pickings in the middle.

"Forty per cent of Tory members are over 55 and 40% are under 30," says
Whelband. "What we have a real problem with is people in their thirties and
forties: people who are busy with family life." It is, in other words, Cameron's
own generation that is missing from the rank and file.

The party's war over gay marriage has been portrayed as a generational issue,
with the elderly implacably opposed and the young accepting. But that is
simplistic.

"I'm very much against gay marriage," says Jacob Wilkinson, 25, a mobile app
developer. "There is no real safeguard for religions. I understand that the
party needs to modernise, but not with an agenda driven by the liberal
metropolitan elite."

Gay marriage is also an issue that tears Cameron away from the party's ethnic
membership. Bhupendra Dave, a city councillor and one of Leicester
Conservatives' new recruits, is being diplomatic but it is clear that he is not
impressed with the decision of his party leader to make a personal campaign
about it. "It is a very divisive issue," he says.

When it comes to Europe, the generation gap in the party is, if anything,
reversed. It is the young who are most upset that Cameron has not attempted to
legislate for a referendum on the EU before 2017.

"We should have a referendum before 2015, and if we had one, I would vote to
come out," says Whelband.

It is a view shared by many young Conservatives in Leicester. One socially
liberal member who says he joined the Conservatives from the Green party is
especially scathing about the lack of democracy in the EU, and wants our
relationship reduced to that of a "common market".

Today the youth wing of the Tory party is called Conservative Future, its
website run from Conservative HQ on Millbank, London. Its members are far from
Cameroon in their outlook; Durham University Conservative Association, for
instance, recently held its own "pint and policy evening" - on whether to
decriminalise drugs and prostitution.

And as far as the threat from UKIP is concerned, it is not just elderly
Conservatives who flirt with the party. One member whom Cameron might be pleased
to see the back of is Alexandra Swann, former deputy chairman of Conservative
Future who defected to UKIP in March. She was unofficial leader of the Tories'
Sarah Palin tendency, describing herself as an "anarcho-capitalist" and writing
of a "war" by the RSPCA on hunting. After her defection she accused Cameron's
government of submitting "to every liberal-left piety imaginable".

At their most exuberant, young Conservatives these days resemble America's Tea
Party activists.

Birmingham University Conservative Future recently held a poll of its members on
the NHS; only 6% wanted the NHS to remain in the form it now is; 69% voted for
the suggestion that the NHS be replaced with an insurance scheme, with care
farmed out to private providers, funded by state money. A quarter wanted a
US-style system, with carers obliged to seek private insurance, with the state
covering only the premiums of the poorest.

This is a far cry from Cameron's commitment in his first conference speech as
leader that his priorities could be summed up in three letters: NHS.

Even Michael Gove, the coalition reformer in chief and education secretary, is
seen as not going far enough by the young Tories in Leicester. "Gove should stop
messing around with this halfway house on non-selective academies and bring back
grammar schools," says one 26-year-old who describes himself as a community
worker. Around him heads nod in agreement.

If Cameron thought the younger members whom the party has recruited since 2005
would share his liberal, metropolitan and rather patrician outlook, he is
mistaken. The Tory leader is caught in a middle-aged no-man's land, a sparsely
populated Conservative Generation X between the old colonels, whom his inner
circle seem to despise, and the Tea Party tendency of the younger flank.

No wonder he is looking so troubled.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: As the swivel-eyed barb enters the popular consciousness many younger
Tories reflect the maverick tendency of Sarah Palin
JIM LO SCALZO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

No swivelling eyes, but a young Tory Tea Party in revolt;
In delving into the party's grassroots in search of the aged 'loons' said to be
resisting the PM's agenda, Ross Clark finds an altogether more vigorous group

BYLINE: Ross Clark

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1113 words


The Marquis Wellington, a mock-Tudor pub on the fringes of Leicester city
centre, is not a bad place to go looking for what a close confidant of David
Cameron is said to have referred to as "swivel-eyed loons". Its upstairs rooms,
which sit behind gilded bow windows festooned with the date 1907, are a
favourite watering hole of the city's Conservative Association.

Here, then, is the provincial power base that is supposedly thwarting Cameron's
modernising agenda. In the eyes of the prime minister's circle, it seems, it is
a dwindling band of septuagenarian Nimbys with beer froth on their grey
moustaches, who spend their time banging on about Europe, quivering at the
thought of immigrants and turning puce over gay marriage.

It is an image slightly spoilt by the fact that the chairman of Leicester
Conservatives is 25. What is more, Simon Whelband, who has organised tonight's
"pint and politics" evening, is in favour of gay marriage and claims that far
from suffering from falling numbers as the old and faithful die off, party
numbers are growing, especially among the young.

"Two years ago the local party was very typical, with functions for old ladies,"
he says. "But we've had 30 new members sign up in the past week. Many of them
are Asian, who joined up after an Asian candidate won a local government
by-election."

Is there anything in particular that inspired them to join the Conservatives? "A
lot of them don't like Keith Vaz."

Not every town, of course, has enjoyed a membership bounce based on a dislike of
Vaz, the long-serving Labour MP for Leicester East.

Nationally, the demographic of the Conservative party is looking dire. While the
party does not publish official membership figures, a research paper published
by the House of Commons library last December estimated the party's membership
at between 130,000 and 150,000, down from 400,000 in the mid-1990s and 3m in the
1950s.

The serious point about this month's "loon" remarks (which are denied by Lord
Feldman, the Cameroon supposedly responsible) was that membership has dwindled
to the point at which it is no longer representative of the general population
but is made up disproportionately of older people with reactionary views.

In the mid-1950s, one in 15 of the British population belonged to the
Conservative party - a huge cross-section of society; Leicester Conservative
Association's 300 members now represent less than one-thousandth of the city's
330,000 population.

The reduced memberships of constituency parties are not all elderly, however. In
Leicester, as in many places, the Conservative party has a membership with the
constitution of a poorly filled sandwich: there are two thick slices on the top
and bottom, but meagre pickings in the middle.

"Forty per cent of Tory members are over 55 and 40% are under 30," says
Whelband. "What we have a real problem with is people in their thirties and
forties: people who are busy with family life." It is, in other words, Cameron's
own generation that is missing from the rank and file.

The party's war over gay marriage has been portrayed as a generational issue,
with the elderly implacably opposed and the young accepting. But that is
simplistic.

"I'm very much against gay marriage," says Jacob Wilkinson, 25, a mobile app
developer. "There is no real safeguard for religions. I understand that the
party needs to modernise, but not with an agenda driven by the liberal
metropolitan elite."

Gay marriage is also an issue that tears Cameron away from the party's ethnic
membership. Bhupendra Dave, a city councillor and one of Leicester
Conservatives' new recruits, is being diplomatic but it is clear that he is not
impressed with the decision of his party leader to make a personal campaign
about it. "It is a very divisive issue," he says.

When it comes to Europe, the generation gap in the party is, if anything,
reversed. It is the young who are most upset that Cameron has not attempted to
legislate for a referendum on the EU before 2017.

"We should have a referendum before 2015, and if we had one, I would vote to
come out," says Whelband.

It is a view shared by many young Conservatives in Leicester. One socially
liberal member who says he joined the Conservatives from the Green party is
especially scathing about the lack of democracy in the EU, and wants our
relationship reduced to that of a "common market".

Today the youth wing of the Tory party is called Conservative Future, its
website run from Conservative HQ on Millbank, London. Its members are far from
Cameroon in their outlook; Durham University Conservative Association, for
instance, recently held its own "pint and policy evening" - on whether to
decriminalise drugs and prostitution.

And as far as the threat from UKIP is concerned, it is not just elderly
Conservatives who flirt with the party. One member whom Cameron might be pleased
to see the back of is Alexandra Swann, former deputy chairman of Conservative
Future who defected to UKIP in March. She was unofficial leader of the Tories'
Sarah Palin tendency, describing herself as an "anarcho-capitalist" and writing
of a "war" by the RSPCA on hunting. After her defection she accused Cameron's
government of submitting "to every liberal-left piety imaginable".

At their most exuberant, young Conservatives these days resemble America's Tea
Party activists.

Birmingham University Conservative Future recently held a poll of its members on
the NHS; only 6% wanted the NHS to remain in the form it now is; 69% voted for
the suggestion that the NHS be replaced with an insurance scheme, with care
farmed out to private providers, funded by state money. A quarter wanted a
US-style system, with carers obliged to seek private insurance, with the state
covering only the premiums of the poorest.

This is a far cry from Cameron's commitment in his first conference speech as
leader that his priorities could be summed up in three letters: NHS.

Even Michael Gove, the coalition reformer in chief and education secretary, is
seen as not going far enough by the young Tories in Leicester. "Gove should stop
messing around with this halfway house on non-selective academies and bring back
grammar schools," says one 26-year-old who describes himself as a community
worker. Around him heads nod in agreement.

If Cameron thought the younger members whom the party has recruited since 2005
would share his liberal, metropolitan and rather patrician outlook, he is
mistaken. The Tory leader is caught in a middle-aged no-man's land, a sparsely
populated Conservative Generation X between the old colonels, whom his inner
circle seem to despise, and the Tea Party tendency of the younger flank.

No wonder he is looking so troubled.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: As the swivel-eyed barb enters the popular consciousness many younger
Tories reflect the maverick tendency of Sarah Palin
JIM LO SCALZO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

THE SEANAD MAKEOVER;
Enda Kenny pledged to let the people decide whether to abolish the upper house
but now politicians are trying to save it, reports Sarah McInerney

BYLINE: Sarah McInerney

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1590 words


'Meek" and "accommodating" are not words normally associated with Phil Hogan,
the minister for environment. Yet, when responding last Wednesday to an
opposition bill on reforming the Seanad, Hogan displayed none of his trademark
robustness.

"It is a comprehensive bill and many of its proposals are innovative and
deserving of detailed consideration in their own right," said Hogan, with a
sympathetic nod in the direction of Katherine Zappone and Feargal Quinn, the two
senators who had drawn up the proposals. Around the Seanad chamber, a couple of
jaws dropped.

With what sounded like a hint of regret, Hogan acknowledged that the government
had already promised to hold a referendum this autumn on the abolition of the
Seanad. "Without prejudice to the outcome of the referendum, this bill is to be
welcomed as making an important contribution to the debate," Hogan said. "I hope
the ideas in it continue to play a role in stimulating people to debate the
issues over the coming months. The people, ultimately, will decide."

There was a nonplussed silence as Hogan resumed his seat. Paschal Mooney, a
Fianna Fail senator, was first to respond. "I am somewhat taken aback at the
benign attitude of the minister which I presume reflects the government's
thinking," he said. "It seems that on the one hand it welcomes all sorts of
debate but on the other it will get rid of us if it can."

Mooney had correctly identified a distinct lack of enthusiasm within the
government for the abolition of the Seanad. As leader of the opposition, Enda
Kenny made a personal commitment to hold a referendum if elected taoiseach. Now,
with the ballot beginning to loom large, a growing number of politicians and
public figures are joining or supporting a campaign to have the upper house
reformed rather than eliminated.

But is there any merit to their argument that the Seanad provides a safeguard
against the "abuse of crude power" by a government with an overwhelming majority
in the Dail? Is this the last gasp of a doomed and desperate chamber? Might
Quinn's and Zappone's campaign to retain the chamber be gaining traction? And is
this a referendum the government is destined to lose? "GARRET FITZGERALD, Mary
Robinson, Douglas Hyde, William Butler Yeats, Séamus Mallon, Noel Browne and Dr
James Ryan," said Catherine Noone, a Fine Gael senator, listing all the
"remarkable parliamentarians" who have served in the Seanad since the foundation
of the state.

In her contribution to the debate on Quinn's and Zappone's bill, Noone was
attempting to highlight the value of the upper house. In doing so, however, she
inadvertently drew attention to one of the main reasons many people believe it
should be abolished: rather than serve a purpose, the Seanad has often acted as
either a retirement home for superannuated politicians, or a springboard for
those whose real aim is entry to the Dail.

The chamber is not cheap, either. There are 60 members, whose pay amounts to
almost (EURO)4m annually. In 2011, they collectively claimed (EURO)1.3m in
allowances and expenses. The secretarial bill comes to about (EURO)1.2m, while
the leaders' allowance payments are (EURO)1.8m. That comes to more than (EURO)8m
a year, before you include stationery, lighting, heating and pensions.

Worse, nobody - not even sitting senators - seems to think it's currently
serving any real purpose.

"We're not given any power to do anything, nobody listens to anything we say. As
it currently stands, I don't think anyone would miss us if we were gone
tomorrow," said one Fine Gael senator morosely last week.

The public, too, has a healthy disregard for the upper house. However, despite
the universal unpopularity of the Seanad, Kenny surprised everyone - including
his own party - when he vowed almost four years ago to put the question of its
abolition to the people.

"There were a few noses out of joint initially, but for the most part it seemed
like a slam dunk," said one Fine Gael minister last week. "Everyone was saying
it was a great idea, and I felt we got a lot of mileage out of it. But as it
looks now, honestly, I'm not sure we'll get it over the line."

Michael McDowell, the former justice minister, was one of the first high-profile
figures to challenge Kenny's plan when he gave a hard-hitting speech in Trinity
College Dublin in December 2011 warning of the democratic dangers of abolishing
the upper house.

One of the central arguments is that the Seanad provides checks and balances
against the might of the Dail. "I don't want to give Enda Kenny unlimited power,
like the power Hitler had," said John Kelly, a Labour senator. "Without the
Seanad, Enda will just have this huge majority of TDs, and they can push through
whatever they want. That is not good for democracy."

But what power does the Seanad have? It reviews legislation and proposes
amendments, but can only delay a bill by up to 90 days. Asked for examples of
successful Seanad "checks and balances" last week, one senator pointed to its
role in the smoking-ban legislation. "It was spotted in the Seanad that there
was no exemption for nursing homes," he said. "Without us, older people would
have to be wheeled outside to have a cigarette."

Most of the campaigners think Zappone's and Quinn's bill offers a viable
alternative to abolition. It proposes extending the right to vote in Seanad
elections to include Irish passport-holders living abroad, and people in
Northern Ireland who are eligible for Irish citizenship. The bill includes a
range of new powers for the upper house, such as scrutiny of draft EU
regulations and ministerial appointments to public bodies, and the ability to
hold public inquiries.

Mark Daly, a Fianna Fail senator, believes the scrutiny of EU law is tailormade
for the upper house. "There's a huge gap there at the moment," he said. "In
2009, 1,291 EU regulations automatically applied to Ireland without any detailed
parliamentary scrutiny. Some 164 EU directives were added directly into Irish
law and 594 statutory instruments were made. The Seanad could play a huge role
in addressing that."

Despite the popularity of her reform bill, Zappone is in favour of referring the
future of the Seanad to the Constitutional Convention. She and Quinn have
written to Tom Arnold, its chairman, to ask that he consider adding reform of
the Seanad to its agenda. "There is scope for that under the convention's term
of reference," said Zappone. "The taoiseach has said he is opposed to it, but
the only rationale is that it is Enda Kenny's wish, and that doesn't seem
acceptable to me."

Zappone is not alone in questioning Kenny's motives in proceeding with the
abolition referendum this autumn. David Norris, an independent senator, claimed
that the Seanad was being "handed out as a sacrifice, a little lump of meat". A
number of senior government figures admit they detect little appetite for
getting rid of the upper house.

"Enda is going for it because he promised he would, not because any of us want
it," said a Fine Gael minister. "It's already causing problems for us, because
TDs whose seats are in danger in the next election now have no safety net -
they'll just be out of a job. That makes it harder to keep discipline in the
party, when people have nothing to lose."

It is precisely this sort of thinking which shows why the Seanad must go,
according to Joe Higgins, a Socialist TD who has long campaigned for its
abolition. "It is a hugely undemocratic, elitist institution that rubberstamps
the policy of the government of the day, while also acting as a platform for
aspiring political party members waiting to be TDs," he said. "There is simply
no justification for keeping it."

Eoin O'Malley, a lecturer in politics in DCU, agrees. "Reforming it will just
create a mirror image of the Dail," he said. "Directly elected senators will be
more like TDs, and will be answerable to the public. It would be like a second
Dail, which we don't need."

O'Malley believes a better option would be to abolish the Seanad and introduce
real Dail reform. This would include electing a ceann comhairle by secret
ballot. "The details would have to be worked out, but you could look at
weighting the voting system to ensure it was an opposition member," he said.

The ceann comhairle would then have the power to set the Dail agenda, appoint
committee members and force ministers to answer parliamentary questions.
O'Malley said other reforms could include a committee to scrutinise legislation
before decisions were made by the government on key aspects of new bills.

THE government's bill setting out the practical details of abolishing the Seanad
is expected this week, and will contain reforms of the Dail. Were it to include
measures as radical as those suggested by O'Malley, it might even help convince
the public that there is nothing to fear by removing the democratic "safeguard"
of the Seanad.

It may be, of course, that the Irish public won't need much convincing to quash
an institution for which most of them cannot vote. The most recent opinion poll,
carried out last February by Ipsos MRBI, found 58% of people intended to vote
for abolition, 20% would vote against it, and 22% had no opinion.

Still, Murphy maintains it is difficult to predict the outcome. "Normally, in a
referendum, the public will take the opportunity to give the government a
kicking by voting No," he said. "But if they vote No this time, they keep 60
politicians in a job. So what do they do? It's a doubleedged sword."

'' I DON'T WANT TO GIVE ENDA KENNY UNLIMITED POWER, LIKE THE POWER HITLER HAD

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Quinn and Zappone hope their proposed changes to the Seanad might help
it survive

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gove must dance alone in his in/out 'hokey cokey'

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 132 words


Tory divisions over Europe run deeper than many of us feared. The gruelling
debate over an in/out referendum seems to have caused a sharp difference of
opinion in the Gove family.

Education secretary Michael last weekend became the first cabinet minister to
declare he'd vote to leave the EU, but this bold stance has not impressed his
wife, the journalist Sarah Vine. Thanks to her columns in The Times, we know she
has forgiven him for hanging wet towels on the bathroom door, for wearing bright
orange trousers, and even for being a member of the Garrick Club. But his latest
suggestion is just too much.

Sarah complains: "Is anyone, apart from a small, mainly middle-aged male group
of people in SW1, really interested in this Europe hokey cokey?" So pipe down,
Michael, or sleep on the sofa.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHY TORIES WON'T PLAY FOLLOW MY LEADER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 524 words


For David Cameron it never rains but it pours. After a week in which 116 Tory
MPs defied him by voting for a motion expressing regret at the failure to
include an EU referendum bill in the Queen's speech, more trouble has been
heaped on him this weekend. Westminster is abuzz with the story of a close
Cameron ally who dismissed Conservative associations as "mad, swivel-eyed
loons".

Off-the-record insults are the staple diet of the parliamentary lobby. Most are
quickly forgotten. This one had resonance because it appeared to reflect the
lofty disdain of the prime minister's inner circle for the Tory grassroots.

By also insulting Mr Cameron's troublesome MPs - "the MPs just have to do it
because their associations tell them to" - it added to resentment in the
parliamentary party.

It remains to be seen how much damage is done by this episode. Lord Feldman, the
Tory co-chairman, yesterday categorically denied internet rumours that he made
the comments and said he was taking legal advice. Mr Cameron's difficulty is
that his party is suspicious of him and he has done his best to increase that
suspicion. Gay marriage may be perfectly laudable but he pushed it through
without offering Tory red meat in support for traditional marriage.

Ring-fencing foreign aid, which everybody who has looked at it knows is wide
open to abuse and waste, was also one for the Guardian-reading classes, not the
Tory mainstream. When Philip Hammond, the defence secretary, speaks out against
prioritising gay marriage and pledges to resist defence cuts in the spending
review, he is speaking the language Tory activists understand.

Mr Cameron does not, because he is not that kind of politician. Political
leaders win admiration through passion and belief, even among those who
disagree. The prime minister, in contrast, is comfortable in his skin and
dislikes "banging on about Europe" and other ideological issues. But to his
party he comes across as a positioner. Gay marriage and foreign aid were
positions adopted to detoxify the Tory brand. Even in that, success has been
limited.

The prime minister lacks the anger and impatience of many in his party. Many of
the new breed of Tory MPs are like old-fashioned politicians: they had careers
before politics and they intend to have them afterwards. But while they are at
Westminster they want to make things happen and do not have time to waste. Not
for them gratitude just for being there, or supporting a government which
contents itself merely with clearing up the mess left by its predecessor.

Mr Cameron is not, of course, unique among party leaders in this. If Ed Miliband
has a strategy, so far it is to say as little about policy as possible and hope
to sneak in by the back door in 2015, possibly in a new coalition with the
Liberal Democrats. Does the Labour leader really want to reform welfare, reduce
immigration or give the public a say on Europe? Like Mr Cameron, he will wait to
see which way the wind blows.

So party activists and ordinary voters are asking "Is that all there is?" about
political leaders. Sadly, that may be all there is. What you see is what you
get, and there isn't much.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stop the panic and plots, PM, or kiss No 10 goodbye

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1057 words


Would the Tories panic at UKIP's surge and, if so, how quickly would they do it?
We now know the answers: a resounding yes and very quickly.

On Europe and immigration, UKIP is shifting the Conservative party onto its
agenda and making good progress on its second objective of destabilising the
Tory leader. Worse for David Cameron, the Conservatives are doing all the hard
work.

Back in 2006, Cameron dismissed UKIP members as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists". Seven years later, Nigel Farage's siege has planted enemies within the
gates of the Tory party. They are springing up like dragon's teeth among local
activists, at least according to the ally of the prime minister who believes
"the associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons".

Both backbenchers and leadership can claim their share of blame (or is it
credit?) for the procedural wrangling of the past 10 days - which now guarantees
that the Conservatives will defy Cameron up to and beyond the next general
election. In or out of office, the party has now committed itself to keep
"banging on about Europe" until "Brexit" (Britain's exit from the EU) - or the
crack of doom.

If the Conservatives lose the next general election, this will be the week that
they lost it. Not because of the rights and wrongs of "Bwussels", as Boris
Johnson mocked in a column last week, but because the voters tend to turn away
from parties that seem more interested in arguing among themselves than in
addressing voters' concerns.

Labour found this out in the 1980s, and the Tories experienced their own
wilderness years after 1992 under the leaderships of John Major, William Hague,
Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard.

Even James Wharton, the 29-year-old backbencher who hastily agreed to adopt
David Cameron's bastard referendum bill, did it apologetically. He would bring
the non-binding proposal before parliament as a private member, he said, to get
it out of the way and so he could move on to matters of greater concern to his
constituents in Stockton South - a wise course for an MP sitting on a majority
of just 332.

But somehow the lesson hasn't been learnt. "The Conservative party has never
been ideological", one cabinet veteran of the Thatcher and Major years bemoaned,
"but the ideologues have taken over." A senior Whitehall mandarin later
marvelled: "And it's the same people."

The Eurosceptic veterans merrily indulging their obsessions are pleasant enough
people, but we are not talking about the stars of the Tory firmament. Yet it was
Cameron who allowed his tormentors to sing the same old song.

"You probably want to see if you can fix what's broken in a very important
relationship before you break it off," was how President Obama came to Cameron's
aid on Europe last week. But the travelling British press party were astonished
that his spokesman failed to trumpet Obama's support. Within hours they were
instead bigging up the prime minister's new gambit - the referendum bill.

Just like his speech in January proposing a referendum if he wins the next
election, the bill is already not enough. For many in his party, Cameron is on
the wrong side anyway in seeking renegotiations that would enable him to
recommend a yes vote on the EU. "I only want a referendum if we can win it - ie,
get out," a former minister confirmed.

Ignoring the small prerequisite of being re-elected, Cameron is now being
bullied over what he would renegotiate with Angela Merkel. His critics hope he
will fail and switch to a no recommendation. In the meantime, they would like to
so exasperate the Liberal Democrats that the party collapses the coalition
early. That isn't going to happen: wherever they are headed, the Lib Dems intend
to stay the full five years in power. Only the Tories can break this government
and their own prime minister.

All the evidence is that the voters care much less about Europe than
Conservative activists. Yet as the ratchet clicks, so Cameron looks more
vulnerable, along with his modernising, centrist agenda.

This goes much wider than Europe - cabinet ministers scent decay and wonder:
"Could it be me?" As the Commons takes up gay marriage, Philip "No" Hammond
complains: "I have just never felt that this is what we should be focusing on."

With help from the justice secretary, Chris Grayling, Theresa May proposes
life-means-life sentences for cop killers, and seems ready to tear up Britain's
long-standing human rights commitments in order to expel Abu Qatada. Michael
Gove, a Cameron loyalist, says no to the EU as it is now. And these ministers
are uniting to deny the government the 10% cuts in departmental budgets that the
chancellor has demanded.

Further from Whitehall, Boris adopts the pose of a stern father of the nation,
weighing the pros and cons of the EU (albeit with a thumb on the con pan of the
scales), and warns that it is not to blame for Britain's sloth, low skills and
culture of gratification. And David Davis, the man Cameron beat to become
leader, hosted a champagne reception to welcome back the suspended Tory MP
Nadine Dorries. Ms Dorries promptly declared: "I am not a rebel; I am
representing the views of my constituents," and proposed she run as a joint
UKIP-Conservative candidate in the next election.

The contempt of Nadine Dorries and her ilk for the coalition and the "arrogant"
and out-of-touch "posh boys" leading her party may yet be a greater threat to
Cameron than the disloyalty of his ministers.

No 10 was eager to push on with the referendum bill because it highlighted
Cameron's master strategy to unite his party: the Conservatives are the only
party guaranteeing a referendum on Britain's membership. When the dust settles
and the battlefield is cleared, Cameron will be in the right place to win the
election, his supporters insist.

A new Ipsos Mori poll gives him some comfort. On who is most capable, most
understanding of Britain's problems and most able to deal with the challenges of
the 21st century, Cameron is comfortably ahead of Miliband, Farage and Clegg (in
that order).

But a stinging 48% say he is "most out of touch with ordinary people", compared
with just 15% or 10% for the other leaders.

If his party, high and low, goes on panicking and plotting, Cameron will look
both out of touch and impotent. Then it may not matter how clever his strategic
position is. Just ask John Major.

@adamboultonsky

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Howe: Cameron is losing control

BYLINE: Patrick Mahaffy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 212 words


THE Tory grandee Lord Howe has warned that David Cameron risks "losing control"
of his party over Europe.

Lord Howe, 86, whose resignation as foreign secretary in 1990 over European
policy helped to bring down Margaret Thatcher, also says that the Tory
leadership is "in effect running scared of its own backbenchers".

Howe, who also served as chancellor and was Thatcher's longest-serving cabinet
minister, believes Cameron must now show an "overriding concern for the national
interest" if he is to retrieve the situation.

The intervention by Howe, in an article in The Observer, comes after 114 Tory
MPs, including a number of government aides, voted in favour of an amendment to
the Queen's speech expressing "regret" that an EU referendum bill was not
included in the government's new legislative programme.

Howe writes: "Sadly, by making it clear in January that he opposes the current
terms of UK membership of the EU, the prime minister has opened a Pandora's box
politically and seems to be losing control of his party in the process.

"The ratchet effect of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the Conservative
leadership is in effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone UKIP,
having allowed deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

WHY TORIES WON'T PLAY FOLLOW MY LEADER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 524 words


For David Cameron it never rains but it pours. After a week in which 116 Tory
MPs defied him by voting for a motion expressing regret at the failure to
include an EU referendum bill in the Queen's speech, more trouble has been
heaped on him this weekend. Westminster is abuzz with the story of a close
Cameron ally who dismissed Conservative associations as "mad, swivel-eyed
loons".

Off-the-record insults are the staple diet of the parliamentary lobby. Most are
quickly forgotten. This one had resonance because it appeared to reflect the
lofty disdain of the prime minister's inner circle for the Tory grassroots.

By also insulting Mr Cameron's troublesome MPs - "the MPs just have to do it
because their associations tell them to" - it added to resentment in the
parliamentary party.

It remains to be seen how much damage is done by this episode. Lord Feldman, the
Tory co-chairman, yesterday categorically denied internet rumours that he made
the comments and said he was taking legal advice. Mr Cameron's difficulty is
that his party is suspicious of him and he has done his best to increase that
suspicion. Gay marriage may be perfectly laudable but he pushed it through
without offering Tory red meat in support for traditional marriage.

Ring-fencing foreign aid, which everybody who has looked at it knows is wide
open to abuse and waste, was also one for the Guardian-reading classes, not the
Tory mainstream. When Philip Hammond, the defence secretary, speaks out against
prioritising gay marriage and pledges to resist defence cuts in the spending
review, he is speaking the language Tory activists understand.

Mr Cameron does not, because he is not that kind of politician. Political
leaders win admiration through passion and belief, even among those who
disagree. The prime minister, in contrast, is comfortable in his skin and
dislikes "banging on about Europe" and other ideological issues. But to his
party he comes across as a positioner. Gay marriage and foreign aid were
positions adopted to detoxify the Tory brand. Even in that, success has been
limited.

The prime minister lacks the anger and impatience of many in his party. Many of
the new breed of Tory MPs are like old-fashioned politicians: they had careers
before politics and they intend to have them afterwards. But while they are at
Westminster they want to make things happen and do not have time to waste. Not
for them gratitude just for being there, or supporting a government which
contents itself merely with clearing up the mess left by its predecessor.

Mr Cameron is not, of course, unique among party leaders in this. If Ed Miliband
has a strategy, so far it is to say as little about policy as possible and hope
to sneak in by the back door in 2015, possibly in a new coalition with the
Liberal Democrats. Does the Labour leader really want to reform welfare, reduce
immigration or give the public a say on Europe? Like Mr Cameron, he will wait to
see which way the wind blows.

So party activists and ordinary voters are asking "Is that all there is?" about
political leaders. Sadly, that may be all there is. What you see is what you
get, and there isn't much.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Political vision needed to boost UK trade in EU;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 385 words


YET again the membership of the EU has become central to political debate and
once more the approaches evinced by our leaders are reactive and lack a larger
political vision ("Haunted by the ghosts of Tories past", Focus, "So tell us,
prime minister, what would make you quit Europe?", Comment, and "Tory civil war
erupts over Europe vote", News, last week).

Where are the big ideas in politics these days? Nigel Lawson says as an
"economist" that we would not be worse off if we left the EU. As a
"businessman", why would he remove 40% of his established market in the hope of
expanding more actively into others? Usually the rule is to consolidate to
secure a base for the cost of expansion into new markets.

The answer may lie not in Britain leaving but in growing its free trade area
substantially. The French include their EU territories such as Réunion as
offshore departments of France. Why don't we, in a similar vein, propose adding
the Commonwealth realms - the 15 countries that along with the UK acknowledge
the Queen as their monarch? They would enter as members of the free trading zone
and could increase the trading area of the EU directly by some 20%, generating a
considerable boost to all the EU economies. Surely this would be a more positive
negotiating base for us with the EU. Michael Holden London NW11 Speak up What
gets me more about all this is the stunning silence of the left. If anyone
should know the devastating effects of 50% EU-style levels of youth unemployment
and of general joblessness on communities and families, it ought be them. Why is
the Labour party so silent? Kevin Henry Manchester Auf wiedersehen, EU? If
Britain had a referendum, I would expect other EU states to follow suit. Quite a
few members of Germany's governing party are more than sceptical of Europe and
might also call for a vote, which I think would not only be democratic but also
take the pressure off politicians. Peter Huuck Hildesheim, Germany Chef's
special Jamie Oliver does more than most to better our lot - an awful lot more,
in fact. His frustrations are genuine and I guess he has earned the right to say
what he thinks ("Mmm, UKIP - they're pukka", News, last week). I don't like UKIP
but agree with Oliver that "what I love is that UKIP are stirring it up".

Martin Neil Eastbourne, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Stop the panic and plots, PM, or kiss No 10 goodbye

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1057 words


Would the Tories panic at UKIP's surge and, if so, how quickly would they do it?
We now know the answers: a resounding yes and very quickly.

On Europe and immigration, UKIP is shifting the Conservative party onto its
agenda and making good progress on its second objective of destabilising the
Tory leader. Worse for David Cameron, the Conservatives are doing all the hard
work.

Back in 2006, Cameron dismissed UKIP members as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists". Seven years later, Nigel Farage's siege has planted enemies within the
gates of the Tory party. They are springing up like dragon's teeth among local
activists, at least according to the ally of the prime minister who believes
"the associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons".

Both backbenchers and leadership can claim their share of blame (or is it
credit?) for the procedural wrangling of the past 10 days - which now guarantees
that the Conservatives will defy Cameron up to and beyond the next general
election. In or out of office, the party has now committed itself to keep
"banging on about Europe" until "Brexit" (Britain's exit from the EU) - or the
crack of doom.

If the Conservatives lose the next general election, this will be the week that
they lost it. Not because of the rights and wrongs of "Bwussels", as Boris
Johnson mocked in a column last week, but because the voters tend to turn away
from parties that seem more interested in arguing among themselves than in
addressing voters' concerns.

Labour found this out in the 1980s, and the Tories experienced their own
wilderness years after 1992 under the leaderships of John Major, William Hague,
Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard.

Even James Wharton, the 29-year-old backbencher who hastily agreed to adopt
David Cameron's bastard referendum bill, did it apologetically. He would bring
the non-binding proposal before parliament as a private member, he said, to get
it out of the way and so he could move on to matters of greater concern to his
constituents in Stockton South - a wise course for an MP sitting on a majority
of just 332.

But somehow the lesson hasn't been learnt. "The Conservative party has never
been ideological", one cabinet veteran of the Thatcher and Major years bemoaned,
"but the ideologues have taken over." A senior Whitehall mandarin later
marvelled: "And it's the same people."

The Eurosceptic veterans merrily indulging their obsessions are pleasant enough
people, but we are not talking about the stars of the Tory firmament. Yet it was
Cameron who allowed his tormentors to sing the same old song.

"You probably want to see if you can fix what's broken in a very important
relationship before you break it off," was how President Obama came to Cameron's
aid on Europe last week. But the travelling British press party were astonished
that his spokesman failed to trumpet Obama's support. Within hours they were
instead bigging up the prime minister's new gambit - the referendum bill.

Just like his speech in January proposing a referendum if he wins the next
election, the bill is already not enough. For many in his party, Cameron is on
the wrong side anyway in seeking renegotiations that would enable him to
recommend a yes vote on the EU. "I only want a referendum if we can win it - ie,
get out," a former minister confirmed.

Ignoring the small prerequisite of being re-elected, Cameron is now being
bullied over what he would renegotiate with Angela Merkel. His critics hope he
will fail and switch to a no recommendation. In the meantime, they would like to
so exasperate the Liberal Democrats that the party collapses the coalition
early. That isn't going to happen: wherever they are headed, the Lib Dems intend
to stay the full five years in power. Only the Tories can break this government
and their own prime minister.

All the evidence is that the voters care much less about Europe than
Conservative activists. Yet as the ratchet clicks, so Cameron looks more
vulnerable, along with his modernising, centrist agenda.

This goes much wider than Europe - cabinet ministers scent decay and wonder:
"Could it be me?" As the Commons takes up gay marriage, Philip "No" Hammond
complains: "I have just never felt that this is what we should be focusing on."

With help from the justice secretary, Chris Grayling, Theresa May proposes
life-means-life sentences for cop killers, and seems ready to tear up Britain's
long-standing human rights commitments in order to expel Abu Qatada. Michael
Gove, a Cameron loyalist, says no to the EU as it is now. And these ministers
are uniting to deny the government the 10% cuts in departmental budgets that the
chancellor has demanded.

Further from Whitehall, Boris adopts the pose of a stern father of the nation,
weighing the pros and cons of the EU (albeit with a thumb on the con pan of the
scales), and warns that it is not to blame for Britain's sloth, low skills and
culture of gratification. And David Davis, the man Cameron beat to become
leader, hosted a champagne reception to welcome back the suspended Tory MP
Nadine Dorries. Ms Dorries promptly declared: "I am not a rebel; I am
representing the views of my constituents," and proposed she run as a joint
UKIP-Conservative candidate in the next election.

The contempt of Nadine Dorries and her ilk for the coalition and the "arrogant"
and out-of-touch "posh boys" leading her party may yet be a greater threat to
Cameron than the disloyalty of his ministers.

No 10 was eager to push on with the referendum bill because it highlighted
Cameron's master strategy to unite his party: the Conservatives are the only
party guaranteeing a referendum on Britain's membership. When the dust settles
and the battlefield is cleared, Cameron will be in the right place to win the
election, his supporters insist.

A new Ipsos Mori poll gives him some comfort. On who is most capable, most
understanding of Britain's problems and most able to deal with the challenges of
the 21st century, Cameron is comfortably ahead of Miliband, Farage and Clegg (in
that order).

But a stinging 48% say he is "most out of touch with ordinary people", compared
with just 15% or 10% for the other leaders.

If his party, high and low, goes on panicking and plotting, Cameron will look
both out of touch and impotent. Then it may not matter how clever his strategic
position is. Just ask John Major.

@adamboultonsky

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Out and proud;
Boston suspect buried, and TD's aide hides bad news ; TOP STORIES FROM THE UK
AND IRELAND

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 116 words


Europe David Cameron faced growing pressure as senior Conservative politicians
suggested Britain should leave the European Union. The former chancellor Lord
Lawson, the former defence secretary Michael Portillo and the London mayor,
Boris Johnson, all expressed degrees of support for the UK's withdrawal.

Portillo said: "I fervently hope that the British have more guts than those who
govern us, and more than those who govern us think we have."

The UK prime minister reiterated his pledge to hold a referendum on Britain's EU
membership in 2017 and may allow Tory ministers to vote for a rebel amendment to
the Queen's speech lamenting the absence of a bill for a referendum in the
legislative agenda.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

EVEN EUROPEANS SHOULD BE SCEPTICS NOW

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 627 words


For David Cameron, there must be a sense of déjà vu about current events. There
are signs of green shoots for the economy, as there were when he was an adviser
to Norman Lamont, now Lord Lamont, in the early 1990s. Yet the Conservative
party has embarked on one of its periodic bouts of soulsearching and division
over Europe. Splits on Europe deprived the Tories of the political benefits of
an improving economy in the 1990s. They could do so again.

Worse for the prime minister, the danger for him is that he is cast in the John
Major role, frozen into indecision by the impossibility of reconciling the pro
and anti European wings of his party. Mr Major could point to negotiating
triumphs, such as the Maastricht opt-outs he won for Britain, just as Mr Cameron
can point to his successful push for a reduction in the European Union budget.
But this counted little for Mr Major and it may not count much for Mr Cameron,
who has the additional burden of having to carry his Liberal Democrat partners
with him.

What should the prime minister do? The one thing he cannot do is stop the
debate. Lord Lawson, Michael Portillo, Lord Lamont and Lord Heseltine, veterans
of those earlier Tory wars, have all had their say. This week's Commons vote on
a Queen's speech amendment, expressing regret at its failure to include a
referendum bill, will open further wounds.

What he can do is use that debate to try to drive the agenda, both at home and
in Europe. Divisions on Europe are not just a Tory issue. Our YouGov poll today
shows 47% of people would vote to leave the EU if there were a referendum now
and only 30% would want to remain. What used to be minority opposition to EU
membership - about a quarter of voters were firmly against - has become
mainstream in the wake of the eurozone crisis and its impact on Britain's
economy and immigration from the EU's new eastern members over the past decade.

Those old enough to have voted in the 1975 referendum did not vote for a
disruptive single currency and large-scale immigration from low-income
countries. The Labour and Lib Dem position, that even these changes do not merit
a vote on membership, looks untenable which the Tories should exploit in the
run-up to 2015. As things stand, the only sure way the nearly half of voters who
want out of the EU can get their referendum is by voting Tory.

More importantly, perhaps, this gives the prime minister leverage in Europe.
Scepticism about the EU is not confined to Britain. Marine Le Pen, the leader of
France's Front National, has a higher poll rating than President François
Hollande. Italy's Five-Star Movement won a quarter of the vote in its
parliamentary elections and Alternative für Deutschland will challenge the
mainstream parties in this autumn's German federal elections.

None of this is surprising. European voters blame the political class for a
eurozone unemployment rate of more than 12%, with nearly a quarter of young
people out of work. Voters are fed up with austerity measures that, for the
crisis economies, are far more severe than anything introduced in Britain. When
political leaders say the solution is more Europe, not less, they appear to be
on another planet.

Mr Cameron has an opportunity to be Europe's candid friend, as over the EU
budget. He and George Osborne were too ready to push Europe towards a fiscal
union when the eurozone crisis exploded. What Europe needs, as many of its
voters recognise, is to move away from supranationalism and towards a
recognition that for a diverse grouping of nation states one size definitely
does not fit all. That would mean some countries leaving the euro. It would also
mean an EU more palatable to British voters. The exit camp has made its
challenge.

The prime minister needs to rise to it.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

So tell us, prime minister, what would make you quit Europe?

BYLINE: CAMILLA CAVENDISH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1191 words


The prime minister is said to be "relaxed" about letting Tory rebels vote on a
symbolic amendment to the Queen's speech, expressing their regret at the absence
of a referendum on European Union membership. And indeed it's a pretty harmless
way for Eurosceptics to let off steam. The real problem is not the vote but what
it symbolises: David Cameron has lost his grip on the European issue.

Everything the prime minister says on Europe is presented as a cynical attempt
to placate the UK Independence party or his own side. It is nearly four long
months since his big Europe speech. He does not communicate the sense of urgency
his backbenchers feel. They are not sure what he believes; nor is the public.

For this reason Michael Portillo's intervention last week was even more
dangerous for Cameron than that of Lord Lawson. The former chancellor made a
strong case, in The Times, for exit from an EU in which Britain is increasingly
marginalised. Portillo, on the other hand, accused the prime minister of faking
Eurosceptism, just as he once accused him of only pretending to be a moderniser.

Portillo's claim that the leader's promise of an in/out referendum on membership
after 2015 is an "insincere ploy" will chime with those voters and MPs who
suspect Cameron has already decided Britain should stay in.

The irony is that the prime minister has never been anything other than a
Eurosceptic. I remember travelling with him to Brussels when he was leader of
the opposition: he argued for radically reforming Europe around the principles
of free trade and competition. As a non-foaming sceptic, he is solidly in line
with what now looks like a majority of British voters and he ought to be sitting
pretty.

Yet the cynicism about his intentions is not surprising, given the lack of
clarity about two things. First, what would he regard as a successful
renegotiation? Second, what will he do if he is unable to deliver it? Cameron
has said that he intends to hold an in/out referendum in 2017, if his government
is re-elected, and that he will try between now and then to negotiate a better
deal for Britain. But the government's failure to define its demands has made it
easier to cast its mission as hollow.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has not published the list of red lines that
William Hague was drawing up; arguing that to publish policy by policy would
give away the negotiating position. Yet to be convinced that the government is
serious, the public must see the principles by which the government will measure
its success in any negotiation.

Those principles might include an end to the application of European Court of
Justice rulings in UK law without parliamentary approval. They might include an
exemption for Europe's small firms from any more directives. They might feature
the restoration of vetoes in areas such as home affairs or financial services.

But whether there is a piece of paper with such things written on it, ready for
the next round of diplomacy, or whether there is simply a row of Ferrero Rocher
chocolate boxes sitting on a table at the Foreign Office in King Charles Street,
we have no idea.

Critics argue that the mission is doomed: that the EU will never allow one
country to set a precedent by taking back powers. But in Cameron's speech in
January he was playing for a much bigger prize: for concessions to be available
to all countries, not just Britain. He was starting to try and articulate the
kind of flexible open Europe that non-eurozone countries should be asking for,
if the eurozone binds itself into a political union.

The only certainty in the swirling European fog is that either a political union
will eventually emerge or the euro will break up. Either event will trigger a
wholly new settlement which Britain could help to shape, unless it walks away
too quickly.

In the great forest of world politics,Lawson and Cameron are sitting on branches
of the same tree. The main difference between them is that Lawson thinks
negotiation is hopeless and the prime minister seems more optimistic.

Lawson, Margaret Thatcher's tax-reforming former chancellor, wants to have his
referendum first and then a kind of exit interview (under article 50 of the
Lisbon treaty, a wonderful piece of vengeful bureaucracy, a state wishing to
exit is supposed to give two years' notice). The prime minister wants to
negotiate first and "referend" after (if that can be a verb), to give the people
a clearer view of what kind of Europe they would be voting to leave or be part
of.

Until now Cameron has seemed to assume that he would bring back sufficient
powers to result in a majority voting to stay "in". Lawson's intervention makes
that vagueness hard to sustain. It would seem strange for the leader of the
Conservative party to be campaigning for Britain to stay in the EU, if his
attempts to reshape the EU had failed. The prime minister must be clearer about
what he would do in that situation.

Lawson is understandably sceptical about renegotiation. But he seems overly
defeatist. Germany is desperate for Britain to remain in the EU, as demonstrated
by the unusual invitation from Angela Merkel, the German leader, to Cameron and
his family to stay with her in Berlin last month. Germany is exasperated by what
it sees as Britain's grubby, transactional view of membership. But with France
collapsing into its Socialist slump, Merkel needs a partner who shares her
outlook on capitalism and competitiveness.

Britain and Germany are the EU's two biggest net contributors. The financial
crisis has seen many of the old rules peremptorily torn up by nation states.
With Europe distracted by the desperate fight to douse the fires raging in its
south, there is no appetite in Brussels for listening to British woes. But with
Germany now effectively in charge of the eurozone, virtually anything is
possible if Merkel says so. Could Merkel offer Britain enough to convince voters
to stay in? It would be very significant if Germany changed its position on the
financial transactions tax, the proposed levy that would damage the City of
London. With George Osborne mounting a challenge to the tax at the European
Court of Justice, parts of the German government are starting to realise that it
would hit Frankfurt as well as London and that it has alarmed global investors.

Time will tell. But time is one of many things Cameron does not have on his
side. Any Conservative prime minister would have been tortured by a right wing
for whom no negotiation will ever be enough. Any Conservative prime minister in
coalition with the Liberal Democrats would have been hamstrung over certain
kinds of legislation. But Cameron has added to his woes by listening for too
long to advisers who have told him that Europe is not a salient issue for
voters. And he has appeared too glib. If he wants to regain the initiative he
must describe the terms under which he would campaign to leave. For Nigel Lawson
has made the idea of leaving the EU respectable in a way that the other Nigel -
Farage - never could.

camilla.cavendish@sunday-times.co.uk

'THE CYNICISM ABOUT CAMERON'S INTENTIONS IS NOT SURPRISING, GIVEN THE LACK OF
CLARITY'

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

'Swat' teams to eradicate drugs in jails

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 739 words


A ZERO-TOLERANCE regime on drugs is to be introduced in prisons after the
government admitted controls are failing.

Ministers are to begin a crackdown in prisons using technology to stop
substances being smuggled in.

Codenamed Operation Spring Clean, the programme will begin with a trial at an
unidentified jail selected by the Ministry of Justice for the first clearout.

"Swat" teams of drug enforcement officers will comb the facility using sniffer
dogs and new detection technology to eradicate illegal substances from the
premises. Chris Grayling, the justice secretary, said: "Drugs in prison are a
major problem. Measures in place to try to keep them under control have not been
particularly successful.

"What we are doing is looking at a real intensive, inyour-face drive to get rid
of drugs in individual prisons to see what the implications are. I would like to
see us get to a much tougher regime across the prison system."

The raid is part of a wider programme to tackle the link between drug abuse and
crime, particularly reoffending. It involves expanding drug testing for
prisoners released on licence to include class B drugs such as cannabis and
forcing prisoners with drug addiction problems to continue rehab as a condition
of their release.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Grayling admitted that illegal substances
were "rife" in jails, leaving prison officers playing "a game of cat and mouse".

"The criminal fraternity uses ingenious methods to get drugs into prisons. There
have been examples of a rocket stuffed with drugs fired over a prison wall into
a yard; we have had tennis balls stuffed with drugs thrown over prison walls; we
even had a dead pigeon stuffed with drugs. There are some really valuable
potential new technologies available to detect them."

Grayling is establishing a reputation at Westminster as a hardline justice
secretary, in contrast to his more liberal predecessor, Ken Clarke.

He describes himself as "firmly on the Eurosceptic wing of the Conservative
party" and is engaged in a long-running battle to curb Brussels' interference in
the British justice system.

He is particularly indignant about an EU initiative under which every member
state's justice system is rated on a "scorecard" and issued with recommendations
for improvement.

"It's effectively a Trojan horse for them making specific policy recommendations
about how individual countries should run their justice systems. It will
undoubtedly be followed by European legislation to try and create a single
European system with common standards.

"We do not have to be part of that and we have made it very clear we are not
going to be part of that. We will not cooperate with the justice scorecard which
I don't believe there is any legal basis for," he said.

Eurosceptic ministers face a dilemma this week over whether to vote in favour of
a backbench Tory amendment to the Queen's speech expressing "regret" at the
absence of legislation for a referendum on Britain's relationship with the EU.

Downing Street has granted a free vote for Tories on the motion, which allows
the Conservatives to show voters that they are being constrained on the issue by
the coalition. Ministers are expected to abstain.

The Liberal Democrats are opposed to a referendum and will not even allow
Cameron to begin renegotiating Britain's ties with the EU.

Grayling said he wanted to start that process "as soon as possible" but admitted
that it was impossible before the general election in 2015. He described himself
as "passionately in favour" of holding an "in/out" referendum but insisted that
it was important to see what Britain could achieve through renegotiation with
Brussels first.

"Getting into discussions about leaving is admitting defeat on the renegotiation
before it starts," he said.

He also wants radical reforms to human rights laws, saying it is a "nonsense"
that such rules have prevented the deportation of the terrorist suspect Abu
Qatada.

Last month Theresa May, the home secretary, announced that Abu Qatada's native
Jordan had promised new safeguards to ensure he was not tortured if he was
repatriated, giving the UK "every chance" of finally getting rid of him.

However, he could still find legal mechanisms to prolong his stay in Britain.

Grayling said: "You can safely assume that the government will sweat every sinew
to make sure we get rid of him. If the current plan does not work then we will
have to look at alternatives."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grayling: tough

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

UKIP in step with public mood on immigration;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 550 words


DAVID CAMERON is clearly out of touch with popular feeling ("Tories demand early
EU vote to spike UKIP guns" and "UKIP: We would strike a deal with Boris
Johnson", News, and "The rise and fall of the political class", Editorial, last
week).

The public at large are primarily concerned with the imminent prospect of yet
more immigration, not a referendum on Europe that is a way off kicking it into
the long grass. It makes no sense to ban Afghan interpreters while allowing a
potentially large influx from eastern Europe. Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader, is
the only politician with the commonsense approach.

We are among the biggest contributors to Europe and this should be a strong
negotiating factor. Trade with the EU will not be seriously affected if we
renegotiate terms, as business depends on demand and value for money. We could
also still co-operate on major projects. Brian Hardy Gravesend, Kent Losing end
If UKIP succeeds in its various objectives, what Brussels-led backlash awaits
the 1.4m British people resident within the EU who currently receive the various
health, tax and social benefits from their respective host countries? Having
newly sold up in the UK to spend our retirement in Brussels, we have more than a
passing concern UKIP policies will cast us all to the wind. Peter Macnab
Brussels Back to the UKIP future The rise of UKIP is not as significant as the
political commentators think. If the party really is a "game changer", in the
words of Farage, why did only 31% turn out to vote, despite much talk of
disaffection? UKIP made no impact at all in many areas (for example, no
candidates were elected in Oxfordshire, Hertfordshire and Bristol). UKIP
councillors do not even have to follow their own party manifesto - except to
take us back to the 1950s. Iain Phillips Stokenchurch Buckinghamshire Imperial
measure UKIP has tapped into the tribal instincts of the British people. While I
understand the need for proper immigration management and for EU reforms, I
think the reason for the rise of UKIP is that it is leading the willing and the
gullible on a merry dance, singing an idiotic song with the words, "We don't
need the rest of the world to survive." They should be reminded that Britain
would not be the sixth richest economy in the world were it not for its former
colonies.

Rowell Wilkinson London E10 Comedy double act I suppose it was inevitable that
UKIP would say it would do a deal with Boris.

Depending on your political allegiance, it will be seen as either a case of
clowns link up with a buffoon, or a Eurosceptic meeting of minds. John Stockham
Folkestone, Kent Against the wind The Sunday Times's reporting of UKIP's
election gains was comprehensive. However, what was missed is the correlation
between these gains and the areas where public opposition to wind farms is very
high.

Of all Britain's main political parties, UKIP is the only one to have a
published policy that opposes wind farms.

Dr Philip Sullivan Lutterworth, Leicestershire Union address The message to
Cameron is clear. If you want to stay in power after 2015, engineer a coalition
with UKIP, however unpalatable that may seem. Banish all talk of "fruitcakes"
and "clowns", as the public are increasingly seeing it as the pot calling the
kettle black.

Bob MacDougall Kippen, Stirlingshire

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Tory civil war erupts over Europe vote

BYLINE: Marie Woolf; Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 848 words


DAVID CAMERON is facing a new bout of civil war in his party as ministerial
aides prepare to back a motion condemning the Queen's speech for failing to
include a bill on an EU referendum.

Two parliamentary private secretaries to the Eurosceptic cabinet ministers
Michael Gove and Owen Paterson said they were ready to support an unprecedented
revolt by the government's own MPs against its legislative programme.

In a second blow, the prime minister is facing a warning from his own loyalist
MPs that his modernisation programme is "faltering" under right-wing pressure.

In a sign of increasing tension within the Tory ranks, a delegation from the
2020 Group, which includes a string of ministers and up-andcoming new MPs, will
go to Downing Street to urge the prime minister to show "true leadership".

Cameron will face the first challenge to his authority on Europe this week when
Tory MPs table a motion expressing "regret" that the Queen's speech did not
include legislation on an EU referendum. The stunt has sent Downing Street into
a tailspin. Yesterday No 10 was embroiled in a frantic rearguard action to
prevent a vote.

However, one rebel leader said last night that there was "no chance whatever"
that they could be persuaded to withdraw the amendment. Cameron has tried to
limit the damage by allowing backbenchers a free vote, while ministers are being
told to abstain. Parliamentary aides - the most junior government rank - would
usually be expected to follow the government line, but No 10 is allowing them to
vote according to their conscience.

A senior cabinet minister today adds to the febrile atmosphere over Europe by
hinting that he could contemplate Britain leaving the EU.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Chris Grayling, the justice secretary,
describes himself as "firmly on the Eurosceptic wing" of the Tory party. He says
Gordon Brown's decision to sign the EU's Lisbon constitutional treaty was
"disastrous for this country". He claims Britain "cannot and should not continue
without a change to its current relationship with the European Union".

"What you don't do is admit defeat before you've started, so I have not got to
the point of saying what I would do in that event," he said.

The row comes as Cameron faced further backbench criticism over the gay marriage
bill, with a series of Tory amendments seeking to water down or wreck the
legislation. Most have been tabled by David Burrowes, a government aide and
devout Christian, and are expected to be backed by up to 150 MPs.

A key amendment calls for a referendum before it become law. Another supports
registrars who do not wish to conduct gay marriages to have the right to opt
out. Another seeks more protection for religious schools and teachers who do not
wish to teach children about gay marriage.

In the face of the criticism, the government is expected to offer a concession
by producing guidance encouraging register offices to make allowances for
registrars with conscientious objections to conducting same-sex weddings.

Another backed by Tim Loughton, the former children's minister, calls for
heterosexual couples to have the right to enter a civil partnership.

The Europe rebels are determined to sustain the pressure on Cameron after the
Queen's speech vote. They hope to table a private member's bill calling for a
referendum on Europe.

One MP described this week's vote on the Queen's speech as "just the first
salvo".

As many as 100 Tory MPs are expected to support the amendment.

Most Conservative members of the cabinet are sympathetic to a referendum and are
frustrated that the Liberal Continued on page 2 ? ? W W

Public warm to Charles Duchess of Cambridge enjoys similar popularity with 79%
seeing her contribution as positive and only 5% as negative. Despite his scrapes
in the past, Prince Harry enjoys the support of more than just the young women
of Washington and other states in America.

In Britain 72% now believe he makes a positive contribution to the monarchy,
while only 12% see him as a negative influence.

Not all the royals are regarded so positively. Asked whether Prince Andrew's
appointment as a member of the Royal Society, the scientific institution, was
appropriate as he has no scientific background, only 22% said yes. More than
double - 47% - said it was inappropriate.

Harry tosses up idea for wounded warrior Olympics, page 4 ? ? Continued from
page 1 compared with just 15% who think he has made a negative contribution.

A majority - 59% - believe that Charles should continue to speak out on issues
which concern him such as the environment and architecture if he becomes king.

However, while Charles seems to be gaining in popularity there is still little
support for the Duchess of Cornwall. Only 16% believe she should become queen,
46% prefer the title of Princess Consort and 11% believe she should have no
title at all.

The younger generation of royals, however, are doing well. Prince William has an
85% rating as making a positive contribution to the royal family compared with
only 3% who see his efforts as negative. The

Public warm to Charles Duchess [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Queen should abdicate if too ill to rule, says poll

BYLINE: James Gillespie

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 632 words


FOR the first time only a minority of voters believe the Queen should carry on
as monarch if she becomes too ill to perform her public duties, according to a
Sunday Times YouGov poll.

Although a majority - 53% - still think the Queen should remain in the role for
life and resist calls to abdicate, this is a fall from 64% in March.

When voters were asked specifically about what she should do if she became too
ill to carry out her regular royal responsibilities, only 43% thought she should
continue.

Significantly, 48% believed she should stand down in those circumstances and
allow the throne to pass to her heirs.

This is a marked turnaround from March when 51% thought she should carry on,
even if she were ill and other members of the royal family had to take over many
of her duties.

As the figures for the Queen have changed so have those for the Prince of Wales
who is experiencing an upsurge in popularity.

Of those polled last week 50% believe he will make a good king - a 13 percentage
point increase since May last year. Only 23% still have doubts and think he will
not make a good monarch, considerably fewer than the 37% who said that in May
last year.

A total of 60% believe that Charles has made a positive contribution to the
monarchy Continued on page 2 ? ? W W

EU row engulfs Labour ? ? Continued from page 1 Democrats blocked it from being
included in the speech.

Those expected to vote for the motion include Gavin Barwell, parliamentary
private secretary to Gove, the education secretary. He said: "I'm sympathetic to
it. If it's a free vote I will be supporting it."

Burrowes, parliamentary private secretary to Paterson, the environment
secretary, said: "I'm inclined to support it as are numerous colleagues but it's
only the first staging post."

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, is facing his own troubles over Europe.
Yesterday he insisted in a speech to the Progress group that "it is wrong now to
commit to an in/out referendum".

But a number of Eurosceptic Labour MPs are supporting the Queen's speech
amendment, which "respectfully regrets that an EU referendum bill was not
included in the Queen's speech".

They include Kate Hoey, MP for Vauxhall, John Cryer, MP for Leyton and Wanstead,
and Kelvin Hopkins, the member for Luton North.

Hoey said: "There is a substantial number of Labour MPs and voters who want to
see a referendum and it would be inconceivable for Labour to go into the next
election and not to pledge to trust the British people. It's about time they had
a say on our future relationship with Europe."

Tomorrow a new Labour group will be launched to back calls for an in/out
referendum.

Labour for a Referendum includes Eurosceptic MPs such as Hopkins and Austin
Mitchell.

In a sign of the depth of anxiety among Tory MPs, Cameron's own loyalists are
preparing to deliver a stark message about the direction he is taking the party.

Members of the so-called 2020 Group, which is supported by a string of
ministers, fear his modernisation project is foundering and is in danger of
being derailed by Eurosceptic rightwingers.

A senior member of the group said: "Our message to the prime minister is that he
needs to show true leadership.

We firmly believe he is our best asset, but he has to have the courage to be
himself, even if it means making enemies. At the moment he is just trying to
please everyone."

The group, whose founding members include Greg Barker, a senior environment
minister, argues that Cameron is not painting a sufficiently optimistic picture
for voters about how the campaign to get the nation's finances back in order
will improve their lives.

Another leading member of the group said: "People want to know what they'll have
at the end of all this austerity."

Haunted by the ghosts of Tories past, Focus, page 17

EU row engulfs Labour W [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UK must stay as our outsider ally

BYLINE: CONSTANTIN GURDGIEV

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1388 words


Loosely based on the famous remark by Donald Rumsfeld, the former US secretary
of defence, uncertain events capable of disrupting the status quo can be classed
into three categories: the unknown knowns, the known unknowns and the unknown
unknowns.

The first category of risks, such as currency risk to trade, we can continuously
monitor, assess and price into policy decisions and our everyday lives.

At the other extreme there are the unknown unknowns, what Nassim Nicholas Taleb,
the author, called the "black swans". Neither the extent of their impact nor the
nature of the risk are known to us, making hedging against such events
completely impossible.

In between the two extremes there are the uncertain events often called the
"grey swan". This is often the most challenging of all forms of uncertainty. We
know something disruptive can happen but we have no ability to gauge with any
precision its impact. The best current example of a "grey swan" from Ireland's
perspective is the uncertainty surrounding the UK's future participation in the
EU.

Aside from cultural, historical, institutional and familial links between the
two countries, Ireland shares physical and maritime borders with the UK. Britain
is singularly the largest trading and financial investment partner for Ireland.

In 2012, bilateral merchandise trade stood at (EURO)31.7bn - 23.5% more than
trade with America and Canada combined. Ireland-UK trade flows in goods is equal
to 61% of our trade with the rest of the EU member states combined. Ireland's
bilateral trade with the UK in services amounted to (EURO)25.2bn in 2011.

It is the second largest services trading partner for Ireland after the US. Our
trade balance in services with the UK shows a (EURO)5bn annual surplus. In
contrast, there is a trade deficit of (EURO)19bn in our services trade with the
US. In 2011, Irish residents held about (EURO)261bn of UK portfolio securities,
representing the second largest portfolio of overseas investments after those in
the US.

Irish foreign direct investment into the UK at the end of 2011 stood at
(EURO)50.2bn; UK investment into Ireland was (EURO)22.2bn.

These trade and investment links are built on a complex web of economic and
institutional interconnections. Research and development, education and other
core professional services and functions rely on institutional cross-links with
UK universities, professional services, and research firms and clients.

Unsurprisingly then, the UK's position within the EU is more closely aligned to
that of Ireland than any other member state. Ireland and Britain share a common
agenda in seeing increased liberalisation of services trade across the EU, and
accelerating the painfully slow implementation of the EU services directive.
Focused on developing new markets and increasing global reach of their
industries, both economies promote significant autonomy within, and devolution
of, EU policymaking.

In more ways than the Europhile Dublin administration is ever willing to admit,
the UK's position within the EU as an independently minded, sceptical and
cautious player is hugely important. A large and powerful nation that constantly
tests EU decisions against national economic and social interests serves Ireland
infinitely better than the continental modus operandi of serial surrender of
national interests to German and French diktats.

Dublin is closer to London than it is to Berlin. There is a symmetry of
objectives that acts as a bulwark against the hierarchical hegemony of
geopolitical power that is shaping the rest of the EU.

A UK referendum on continued membership of the EU can lead to only three
possible outcomes - all with serious implications for Ireland. In the best-case
scenario, the UK successfully renegotiates the terms and conditions of its
membership. It would continue to position itself as a cautious outsider to the
European core, a counterbalance that is vital for smaller states with strong
pro-growth interests. Trade and investment continue as normal.

In a less benign scenario, the UK remains in the EU while failing to renegotiate
its membership conditions. In this case, it would be required to converge
rapidly with the continental core on key policies.

These include reforms of corporate taxation codes, harmonisation of other tax
systems, and regulatory systems consolidation of enforcement institutions.
Greater centralisation of power and decision-making in Berlin and Paris, with
London joining the core, will leave Ireland on the margins of Europe.

The UK's inevitable joining of the euro would seal the end of the Irish economic
model of providing a platform for US trade and investment entry into the euro
area.

The worst-case scenario is a UK exit.

Even if unlikely, this outcome deserves serious consideration, if only for the
impact it could have on the Irish economy. It could trigger an outright trade
war and capital flow controls between the EU and the UK.

There is little love lost between German and French elites and the UK over its
position within Europe. Past experiences with Norway, Switzerland, Liechtenstein
and Bulgaria show that the EU is capable of acting like a bully in the
schoolyard.

The consequences of such a conflict will be disastrous for Ireland. In the long
run, the impact of reduced joint projects development and co-shared services
provision across the border will further reduce our access to UK markets.
Disruptions to co-located financial services, from banking to pension funds,
investment funds and insurance business, and in retail, logistics and wholesale
sectors, would be significant.

Changes within the EU in the wake of a possible UK exit would undoubtedly harm
Irish economic growth prospects.

Without the UK's critical assessment and testing of the EU drive for integration
and enlargement, Brussels would be free to pursue aggressive tax reforms along
the lines currently being developed under the "enhanced cooperation" procedures
by Berlin and Paris.

The EU services directive agenda would be killed off by Paris and Berlin.
Neither want increased competition in protected services. Even in its initial
stage, the directive promises to boost Irish GDP by 0.5%-1% a year. Research
from Open Europe, published last week, estimates that Ireland could gain up to
2.1% of GDP from enhanced liberalisation of trade in services beyond the current
services directive.

I believe the long-term impact of the UK adopting a direct competitive stance
against the EU could shave up to 10-12 percentage points off our economy's
potential output, with little on offer to replace this lost activity. This
offers a clear direction for the Irish position regarding the debate about the
UK in Europe, about both the role of our closest neighbour in the European
project and the future of the EU itself.

Ireland needs a strong UK, a check and balance on the EU's persistent drive
towards more integration and bureaucratisation of the common policies and
governance space. Ireland needs a strong EU with diversified and flexible
institutions capable of absorbing various shocks and creating a functional
policies laboratory for possible responses to adverse global and internal
challenges.

We need to support continued UK participation in Europe while respecting our
neighbour's national agenda, by encouraging the EU to proactively engage with
London in modernising the terms of the UK membership within the EU.

PS: The 2012-13 QS World University Rankings by Subject published over the past
few weeks should provide food for thought for our higher education mandarins.
From the top of the rankings, only one Irish university, Trinity College Dublin
(ranked 67th in the world), makes it into the top 100, with our second-best,
University College Dublin, in 131st place. University College Cork (190th)
completes the trio of Irish universities in the top 250 worldwide institutions.
In subject rankings, Irish universities perform poorly across a number of core
disciplines. In mathematics, environmental science, and earth and marine
sciences no Irish university ranks in the top 150. In chemistry, TCD is the only
university to make the top 100.

The list of mediocre results goes on and on. Ireland needs an overhaul of its
higher education system if we are to begin matching the government's rhetoric
about the quality of our workforce with reality.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Out and proud;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK AND IRELAND

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 116 words


Europe David Cameron faced growing pressure as senior Conservative politicians
suggested Britain should leave the European Union. The former chancellor Lord
Lawson, the former defence secretary Michael Portillo and the London mayor,
Boris Johnson, all expressed degrees of support for the UK's withdrawal.

Portillo said: "I fervently hope that the British have more guts than those who
govern us, and more than those who govern us think we have."

The UK prime minister reiterated his pledge to hold a referendum on Britain's EU
membership in 2017 and may allow Tory ministers to vote for a rebel amendment to
the Queen's speech lamenting the absence of a bill for a referendum in the
legislative agenda.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MGQ on course for flight of fancy

BYLINE: BRENDA POWER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 130 words


"I will have great pleasure in coming home, whenever the referendum takes place,
to vote no to the abolition of the Seanad," declared our European commissioner,
Máire Geoghegan-Quinn, last week, doing her bit to ensure a stampede to the
polling booths on referendum day.

The revelation about the pleasure she'll take in her flight home added a whiff
of Pee Flynn "je ne sais quoi" to MGQ's lofty intervention. Will she choose the
government jet, which seems to be pinging back and forth across the globe just
so the pilots can keep up their flying hours? Or will she opt to get on a
scheduled flight, after a chauffeured trip to the airport, and turn left when
she enters, or perhaps just slum it with hoi polloi in business class?
Decisions, decisions - you should try it some time.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EVEN EUROPEANS NEED TO BECOME SCEPTICS NOW;
ESTABLISHED 1822

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 475 words


For David Cameron, there must be a sense of déjà vu about current events. There
are signs of green shoots for the British economy, as there were when the UK
prime minister was an adviser to Norman Lamont, now Lord Lamont, in the early
1990s. Yet the Conservative party has embarked on one of its periodic bouts of
soul-searching and division over Europe. Splits on this issue deprived the
Tories of the political benefits of an improving economy in the 1990s. They
could do so again.

The danger for the prime minister is that he is cast in the John Major role,
frozen into indecision by the impossibility of reconciling the pro- and
anti-Europe wings of his party. Mr Major could point to his own negotiating
triumphs as prime minister, such as the Maastricht opt-outs he won for Britain,
just as Mr Cameron can point to his successful push for a reduction in the
European Union budget. But this counted little for Mr Major and it may not count
much for Mr Cameron, who must also bring his Liberal Democrat partners with him.

The one thing Mr Cameron cannot do is stop the debate. Lord Lawson, Michael
Portillo, Lord Lamont and Lord Heseltine, veterans of those earlier Tory wars,
have all had their say. This week's House of Commons vote on a Queen's speech
amendment, expressing regret at the failure to include a referendum bill, will
open further wounds. Divisions on Europe are not just a Tory issue, however. A
poll for this newspaper reveals 47% of people in Britain would vote to leave the
EU if there were a referendum now, and only 30% would want to remain. What used
to be minority opposition to EU membership - about a quarter of voters were
firmly against - has become mainstream in the wake of the eurozone crisis, its
impact on Britain's economy and immigration from the EU's new eastern members
over the past decade.

Scepticism about the EU is not confined to Britain. Marine Le Pen, the leader of
France's Front National, has a higher poll rating than President François
Hollande. Italy's Five-Star Movement won a quarter of the vote in its
parliamentary elections and Alternative für Deutschland will challenge the
mainstream parties in this autumn's German federal elections. None of this is
surprising. European voters blame the political class for a eurozone
unemployment rate of more than 12%, with nearly a quarter of young people out of
work. Voters are fed up with austerity measures. When political leaders say the
solution is more Europe, not less, they appear to be on another planet.

What Europe needs is to move away from supranationalism and towards a
recognition that for a diverse grouping of nation states, one size definitely
does not fit all. That would mean some countries leaving the euro. It would also
mean an EU more palatable to British voters. The exit camp has made its
challenge.

Mr Cameron needs to rise to it.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

COALITION MAY GET BLOODY NOSE IN SEANAD SCRAP;
ESTABLISHED 1822

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 627 words


With the government threatening to put the Seanad out of business, senators are
no doubt grateful for any support that comes their way. Having Máire
Geoghegan-Quinn in their camp, however, is an endorsement they could surely do
without. Ireland's European commissioner is a fully paid-up member of the
political class which the Irish public regards as rather too high on its own
sense of entitlement.

Upon her appointment to Brussels in 2010, Ms Geoghegan-Quinn became embroiled in
a row concerning the taxpayer-funded pensions she had built up during her career
as a TD and minister. Even though her new European Commission post paid almost
(EURO)250,000 a year, she was determined to hold on to her (EURO)108,000-ayear
pension as well, until a combination of public fury and barely disguised
criticism from other politicians caused her to relent. It could be argued Ms
Geoghegan-Quinn was out of touch with the mood of the country in the
post-Celtic-tiger period, especially since she had been out of the Irish
political arena for a decade, since becoming Ireland's appointee to the European
court of auditors in 2000. Come the autumn, she may find she is even more out of
touch with the public mood.

The government's planned referendum to abolish the upper house is designed to
save millions of euros a year by getting rid of the 60 senators who occasionally
sit on its wellupholstered seats. The abolition is unashamedly populist. Irish
politicians as a class are held in low esteem by the public. Culling the least
important is a sure-fire way of currying favour with voters. The abolition is
supposed to be part of a wider reform programme, but the only arguments the
government has presented to date concern the cost of the Seanad, and even those
figures are disputed.

Abolishing one of the houses of the Oireachtas in a democratic state is a
far-reaching move. The government will need to present a coherent argument for
holding this referendum, especially since the senators have no intention of
going gentle into that good night. Indeed, getting the referendum passed could
prove to be a more difficult task than the government imagines, especially as
Michael McDowell, a talented debater, seems intent on leading a campaign against
it.

A few weeks ago, Mr McDowell derided the taoiseach's plan to abolish the Seanad
as a "cheap stunt, by which all political power will be concentrated in the
hands of government". The move might be dressed up as political reform, but that
was no more than a "threadbare defence", he reckoned. Now the former leader of
the Progressive Democrats has joined forces with a number of senators, and they
plan to publish a detailed blueprint of Seanad reform, aimed at transforming it
into a modern and relevant parliamentary institution.

Their proposals, in the form of a private members' bill, will include extending
Seanad voting rights to emigrants who register with overseas embassies - a
franchise some activists are also seeking for general elections - and to Irish
citizens in Northern Ireland. The bill also proposes the creation of separate
lists of male and female candidates in each of the five existing Seanad
electoral panels, guaranteeing that women candidates would secure at least 16 of
43 vocational panel seats. Mr McDowell is also in favour of reducing the
salaries of senators and giving them more meaningful functions.

All of these suggestions are worth debating, especially since the government's
arguments can be best described as reductionist. Mr McDowell, lest we forget,
was one of the former attorneys-general whose intervention was instrumental in
defeating the October 2011 referendum proposing extra powers of inquiry for
Oireachtas committees. Do not rule out another bloody nose for the coalition.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

POINTS;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 570 words


Power drain Alan McCarthy is correct to say the debate on windfarms is shallow
and revolves around cosmetic and noise issues ("Time to cut our losses on
flagging wind farms", Letters, last week). The real problem with windfarms is
that the energy they produce is insufficient, and back-up fossil-fuel generators
cannot be switched off at any time. No windfarm advocator has addressed this
issue. If you only included export figures in an economic analysis of Ireland,
your results would show a positive outlook, but you would be ignoring bank and
private debts which need to be accounted for. It is the same with wind energy -
commentators only dwell on positives, and neglect the fact that it doesn't
displace fossil fuels.

Rather than being a substitute for other energy sources, wind is simply an
expensive passenger on the system for consumers. Owen Martin Cavan In a class of
their own The reason the middle class seem to be an endangered species is
because of their inability to adapt ("Bourgeois blues", Books, last week). The
middle class are clueless when it comes to money management, have exaggerated
views of their own value, and mad-as-hatter expectations. They are positively
dangerous, because they easily convert senseless people to the middle-class
belief system. They are quietly, and in their well-mannered way, undermining
society. James Kelly Farranfore, Co Kerry No just deserts The granting of a
pardon and apology to Irish army deserters during the Second World War hardly
honours those who did not desert. Yet they stood by their country and its
constitution, giving "fidelity to the nation and loyalty to the state". They
defended Irish neutrality at a time when "a small nation stood alone". JA
Barnwell Dublin 9 Immigration is key British prime minister David Cameron is
clearly out of touch with popular feeling ("Tories demand early EU vote to spike
UKIP guns", News, and "The rise and fall of the political class", Editorial,
last week). The British public are primarily concerned with the imminent
prospect of yet more immigration, not a referendum on Europe that is a way off,
kicking it into the long grass. It makes no sense to ban Afghan interpreters
while allowing a potentially large influx from eastern Europe. Nigel Farage,
UKIP's leader, is the only politician with the commonsense approach. We are
among the biggest contributors to Europe and this should be a strong negotiating
factor. Trade with the EU will not be seriously affected if we renegotiate
terms, as business depends on demand and value for money. We could also still
co-operate on major projects. Brian Hardy Gravesend, Kent False sense of reality
One should beware statistics on cohabitation in Ireland ("The Five Year Hitch",
Focus, last week). In 1993 the Central Statistics Office was empowered to devise
questions on our five-yearly census forms. In their first effort in 2002, the
CSO sought only to identify persons in the household who were cohabiting with
the person who filled in the form. Other cohabitees escaped unrecorded. Like the
question on religious affiliation, it couldn't have been better designed to lull
all into a false sense of reality.

John Colgan Leixlip, Co Kildare Letters should arrive by midday Thursday and
include the full address and a daytime and an evening telephone number. Please
quote date, section and page number. We may edit letters, which must be
exclusive to The Sunday Times

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

HAUNTED BY THE GHOSTS OF TORIES PAST;
David Cameron hoped he had put the issue of Europe to bed. Now it's back, say
Jack Grimston and Isabel Oakeshott

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1658 words


The horse-drawn carriages were back in the royal mews and the ceremonial gowns
were stored away. The Queen's speech was done and dusted for another year. But
the political debate about what Her Majesty had said - and more importantly what
she had not said - was only just getting under way.

A couple of miles from Westminster a private dinner was taking place to discuss
Britain's relationship with Europe.

The subject was a glaring omission from the Queen's speech, particularly given
the intervention just a day earlier from one of the Conservative party's biggest
beasts: Lord Lawson, a former chancellor, had declared he would vote for Britain
to leave the "bureaucratic monstrosity" that the European Union has become.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former UK foreign secretary, likened Lawson's
intervention to "throwing a hand grenade into a small building".

Over red meat and fine wine at Guildhall in the City of London, 20 City figures,
political observers and a handful of MPs were in heated debate.

Andrea Leadsom, a backbencher tipped as a future party leader, could not
understand the fuss. "Nigel Lawson doesn't speak for anybody," she is said to
have told fellow guests. "The only person he consults is himself when he looks
in the mirror when he shaves."

Others disagreed, fearing Downing Street's official strategy - to renegotiate
Britain's membership of the EU before putting the results to a referendum in
2017 - will come to nothing.

Back at Westminster as Norman Lamont, another former chancellor, and Michael
Portillo, once defence secretary, backed Lawson, disappointed Tory Eurosceptics
were hitting the phones and gathering in bars to discuss their moves.

They had been given heavy hints by the party leadership that they could expect
something in the legislative programme to strengthen Cameron's commitment to an
in/out referendum.

Now they were hatching a highly unusual plot to make their disappointment known
- by putting down an amendment to the Queen's speech that "regrets that an EU
referendum bill was not included in the Gracious Speech".

For members of a governing party to criticise their own administration in this
way is almost unprecedented. Voting through the Queen's speech is meant to be a
formality.

Now No 10 has granted Tory MPs - even ministers - a free vote on the motion.

Cameron will avoid the potential embarrassment because he will be in America on
Tuesday and Wednesday when the debate will be held.

Downing Street wants ministers to abstain. But this weekend there were signs
that some ministerial aides may back the Eurosceptic amendment - among them two
parliamentary private secretaries: David Burrowes, who works for the environment
secretary Owen Paterson, and Gavin Barwell, who works for Michael Gove, the
education secretary.

Philip Cowley, a politics professor at Nottingham University and an expert on
parliamentary rebellions, described the prospect as "astonishing".

"The government is effectively saying: we don't have confidence in our own
legislative programme," he said.

The only other significant rebellion about the Queen's speech since the Second
World War by MPs of a governing party was a Labour revolt over military
conscription in 1946.

Cowley believes the Tory rebellion is "far more serious" than the one that tore
the party apart in the early 1990s because so many MPS are now defying the
leadership.

How have the Conservatives descended once again into a state of near civil war
over Europe - and can Cameron keep both his party and his coalition with the
Europhile Liberal Democrats together? UNTIL this month's local elections the
prime minister's fortunes had appeared to be reviving.

His long-awaited speech on Europe in January had temporarily quietened the
Eurosceptics; the budget was not a repeat of last year's "omnishambles" and Lady
Thatcher's death and funeral had brought the Tory tribe together. Even the
plotters against his leadership had piped down.

Then came Nigel Farage's triumph in the local elections earlier this month. The
Conservatives did not lose as many seats overall as some had feared and the
implications of UKIP's performance took a while to sink in. Now that the dust
has settled Tory MPs with smaller majorities are seriously rattled, fearing
Farage's party may cost them their seats in 2015.

They are desperate to stop the UKIP juggernaut and fear Cameron's pledge for a
referendum in 2017 is too vague and distant to work.

In recent weeks two separate campaigns have been quietly building. One, led by
the backbencher John Baron, wants legislation promising a referendum to be
passed before 2015, tying whoever wins the general election into a popular vote.

The second faction, led by the Eurosceptic veterans Bill Cash, John Redwood and
Bernard Jenkin, want a "mandate referendum" within the next year to give Cameron
the goahead to start renegotiation. At the moment the presence of Nick Clegg,
the Lib Dem leader, in the coalition means that the prime minister cannot even
start talks.

One senior rebel who is backing early legislation described bumping into Cameron
in the division lobbies a few weeks ago. "I said, let's get together for a
meeting. He said, 'Good idea - I'll be in touch.' But he hasn't responded. I've
been chasing him."

Downing Street is sniffy about the so-called mandate referendum. "I don't think
we're going to be holding two referendums," said one insider. "They're extremely
expensive, for one thing." Nevertheless, No 10 does seem to be more open to
Baron's approach.

In the meantime, Labour and the Lib Dems are delighted by the mess. They can sit
back and enjoy the familiar spectacle of Tory Eurobattles.

For now Ed Miliband is saying he does not support an in/out referendum.
Yesterday he crowed that Cameron was "not chillaxing on the sofa. He is hiding
behind the sofa, too scared to confront his rebels."

On the face of it the Labour leader's apparent refusal to contemplate a
referendum seems an unlikely vote winner. Given the strength of popular
hostility to Europe, allowing the public to have a say on the issue is a more
obvious path.

Yet Miliband could be playing a more subtle game. Gisela Stuart, a German-born
Labour MP who backs British withdrawal from the EU, thinks her party leader is
right to delay.

"If you are well positioned and your role is to oppose and you are two years
from a general election and you see the government tearing itself apart over an
issue, why would you box yourself in to anything?" she said.

Some observers believe it serves Miliband's purposes better to keep his plans
secret for another year, before he then finds a suitable excuse to change his
mind.

For Clegg, the arch Europhile, it is another flip flop - this one little
noticed. In 2008 he had campaigned hard for an in/out referendum, although there
was no question of the way he would vote.

AMID all the noise about Europe there is a real fear among loyalist Tory MPs
that Cameron's own voice is being drowned out.

This week a delegation from the so-called 2020 group of "Cameroon" MPs, which
includes a number of ministers, will go to Downing Street to warn the prime
minister that he must start showing "true leadership".

One said: "There's a danger he's like the headmaster just dealing with the
naughty boys in the corridor. He needs to listen to the quiet ones who are
getting on with it."

The fear among this set is that Cameron's "modernisation project" is faltering.
They worry that he devotes too much energy to trying to please everyone and is
not spending enough time showing voters how their lives will get better once the
austerity is over.

One loyalist, Margot James, the MP for Stourbridge, said: "I agreed from the
word go with the concept of a referendum, but I never agreed with trying to
force the pace. I don't think people should be trying to force his hand and
apply too much pressure. It is all too public as well. I'm disappointed at the
turn of events."

It may be only a crumb of comfort but, for the time being at least, one of
Cameron's most dangerous and vociferous critics is back on board.

Nadine Dorries, the scourge of the "Tory posh boys" who was suspended from the
Conservative party for bunking off parliament to appear on a reality TV show,
was last week given back the Tory whip.

Tomorrow night David Davis, another Tory "bad boy", will throw a party in her
honour in his huge Westminster office. The bash is being dubbed as "the return
of the prodigal daughter".

As many as 90 MPs and friends are expected to gather in the room of the former
leadership contender. Dorries jokes that whips are welcome - as long as they're
"accompanied by a responsible adult". For now she is one less problem for the
party leadership to worry about - but months of battles about Europe lie ahead.

Where will it all end? It could all come down to a lottery. This week MPs will
submit applications for their own pet topics to be discussed in so-called
private member bills. In a random ballot a handful are then selected for debate.
The Eurosceptics are hoping that one of their number will win, creating a real
prospect that legislation for a referendum will get parliamentary time. It will
have no hope of going through - but if Downing Street allows ministers to back
it then it could have a unifying effect on the party, if not on the coalition.

If the ballot comes out against the Eurosceptics, however, or if No 10 fails to
help them then the row could, according to one senior minister, "split the party
again".

Additional reporting: Marie Woolf Even Europeans need to become sceptics now,
Editorial, page 10

" TORY MPS WITH SMALLER MAJORITIES ARE RATTLED - FARAGE'S PARTY MAY COST THEM
THEIR SEATS

What the public thinks     YouGov questioned 1,945 adults, May 9-10 How would
you vote in an EU referendum? If it were held now? If new terms were negotiated
to protect our interests? Stay in the EU 30% Leave the EU 47% Would not vote 4%
Don't know 19% Stay in the EU 45% Leave the EU 32% Would not vote 4% Don't know
19%

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage is forcing Cameron to the right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Out and proud;
TOP STORIES FROM THE UK

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 119 words


Europe David Cameron faced growing pressure as a number of senior Conservative
politicians suggested Britain should leave the European Union. The former
chancellor Lord Lawson, the former defence secretary Michael Portillo and the
London mayor, Boris Johnson, all expressed varying degrees of support for the
UK's withdrawal.

Portillo said: "I fervently hope that the British have more guts than those who
govern us, and more than those who govern us think we have."

The prime minister reiterated his pledge to hold a referendum on Britain's EU
membership in 2017 and may allow Tory ministers to vote for a rebel amendment to
the Queen's speech lamenting the absence of a bill for a referendum in the
legislative agenda.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EVEN EUROPEANS SHOULD BE SCEPTICS NOW

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 627 words


For David Cameron, there must be a sense of déjà vu about current events. There
are signs of green shoots for the economy, as there were when he was an adviser
to Norman Lamont, now Lord Lamont, in the early 1990s. Yet the Conservative
party has embarked on one of its periodic bouts of soulsearching and division
over Europe. Splits on Europe deprived the Tories of the political benefits of
an improving economy in the 1990s. They could do so again.

Worse for the prime minister, the danger for him is that he is cast in the John
Major role, frozen into indecision by the impossibility of reconciling the pro
and anti European wings of his party. Mr Major could point to negotiating
triumphs, such as the Maastricht opt-outs he won for Britain, just as Mr Cameron
can point to his successful push for a reduction in the European Union budget.
But this counted little for Mr Major and it may not count much for Mr Cameron,
who has the additional burden of having to carry his Liberal Democrat partners
with him.

What should the prime minister do? The one thing he cannot do is stop the
debate. Lord Lawson, Michael Portillo, Lord Lamont and Lord Heseltine, veterans
of those earlier Tory wars, have all had their say. This week's Commons vote on
a Queen's speech amendment, expressing regret at its failure to include a
referendum bill, will open further wounds.

What he can do is use that debate to try to drive the agenda, both at home and
in Europe. Divisions on Europe are not just a Tory issue. Our YouGov poll today
shows 47% of people would vote to leave the EU if there were a referendum now
and only 30% would want to remain. What used to be minority opposition to EU
membership - about a quarter of voters were firmly against - has become
mainstream in the wake of the eurozone crisis and its impact on Britain's
economy and immigration from the EU's new eastern members over the past decade.

Those old enough to have voted in the 1975 referendum did not vote for a
disruptive single currency and large-scale immigration from low-income
countries. The Labour and Lib Dem position, that even these changes do not merit
a vote on membership, looks untenable which the Tories should exploit in the
run-up to 2015. As things stand, the only sure way the nearly half of voters who
want out of the EU can get their referendum is by voting Tory.

More importantly, perhaps, this gives the prime minister leverage in Europe.
Scepticism about the EU is not confined to Britain. Marine Le Pen, the leader of
France's Front National, has a higher poll rating than President François
Hollande. Italy's Five-Star Movement won a quarter of the vote in its
parliamentary elections and Alternative für Deutschland will challenge the
mainstream parties in this autumn's German federal elections.

None of this is surprising. European voters blame the political class for a
eurozone unemployment rate of more than 12%, with nearly a quarter of young
people out of work. Voters are fed up with austerity measures that, for the
crisis economies, are far more severe than anything introduced in Britain. When
political leaders say the solution is more Europe, not less, they appear to be
on another planet.

Mr Cameron has an opportunity to be Europe's candid friend, as over the EU
budget. He and George Osborne were too ready to push Europe towards a fiscal
union when the eurozone crisis exploded. What Europe needs, as many of its
voters recognise, is to move away from supranationalism and towards a
recognition that for a diverse grouping of nation states one size definitely
does not fit all. That would mean some countries leaving the euro. It would also
mean an EU more palatable to British voters. The exit camp has made its
challenge.

The prime minister needs to rise to it.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

So tell us, prime minister, what would make you quit Europe?

BYLINE: CAMILLA CAVENDISH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1191 words


The prime minister is said to be "relaxed" about letting Tory rebels vote on a
symbolic amendment to the Queen's speech, expressing their regret at the absence
of a referendum on European Union membership. And indeed it's a pretty harmless
way for Eurosceptics to let off steam. The real problem is not the vote but what
it symbolises: David Cameron has lost his grip on the European issue.

Everything the prime minister says on Europe is presented as a cynical attempt
to placate the UK Independence party or his own side. It is nearly four long
months since his big Europe speech. He does not communicate the sense of urgency
his backbenchers feel. They are not sure what he believes; nor is the public.

For this reason Michael Portillo's intervention last week was even more
dangerous for Cameron than that of Lord Lawson. The former chancellor made a
strong case, in The Times, for exit from an EU in which Britain is increasingly
marginalised. Portillo, on the other hand, accused the prime minister of faking
Eurosceptism, just as he once accused him of only pretending to be a moderniser.

Portillo's claim that the leader's promise of an in/out referendum on membership
after 2015 is an "insincere ploy" will chime with those voters and MPs who
suspect Cameron has already decided Britain should stay in.

The irony is that the prime minister has never been anything other than a
Eurosceptic. I remember travelling with him to Brussels when he was leader of
the opposition: he argued for radically reforming Europe around the principles
of free trade and competition. As a non-foaming sceptic, he is solidly in line
with what now looks like a majority of British voters and he ought to be sitting
pretty.

Yet the cynicism about his intentions is not surprising, given the lack of
clarity about two things. First, what would he regard as a successful
renegotiation? Second, what will he do if he is unable to deliver it? Cameron
has said that he intends to hold an in/out referendum in 2017, if his government
is re-elected, and that he will try between now and then to negotiate a better
deal for Britain. But the government's failure to define its demands has made it
easier to cast its mission as hollow.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has not published the list of red lines that
William Hague was drawing up; arguing that to publish policy by policy would
give away the negotiating position. Yet to be convinced that the government is
serious, the public must see the principles by which the government will measure
its success in any negotiation.

Those principles might include an end to the application of European Court of
Justice rulings in UK law without parliamentary approval. They might include an
exemption for Europe's small firms from any more directives. They might feature
the restoration of vetoes in areas such as home affairs or financial services.

But whether there is a piece of paper with such things written on it, ready for
the next round of diplomacy, or whether there is simply a row of Ferrero Rocher
chocolate boxes sitting on a table at the Foreign Office in King Charles Street,
we have no idea.

Critics argue that the mission is doomed: that the EU will never allow one
country to set a precedent by taking back powers. But in Cameron's speech in
January he was playing for a much bigger prize: for concessions to be available
to all countries, not just Britain. He was starting to try and articulate the
kind of flexible open Europe that non-eurozone countries should be asking for,
if the eurozone binds itself into a political union.

The only certainty in the swirling European fog is that either a political union
will eventually emerge or the euro will break up. Either event will trigger a
wholly new settlement which Britain could help to shape, unless it walks away
too quickly.

In the great forest of world politics,Lawson and Cameron are sitting on branches
of the same tree. The main difference between them is that Lawson thinks
negotiation is hopeless and the prime minister seems more optimistic.

Lawson, Margaret Thatcher's tax-reforming former chancellor, wants to have his
referendum first and then a kind of exit interview (under article 50 of the
Lisbon treaty, a wonderful piece of vengeful bureaucracy, a state wishing to
exit is supposed to give two years' notice). The prime minister wants to
negotiate first and "referend" after (if that can be a verb), to give the people
a clearer view of what kind of Europe they would be voting to leave or be part
of.

Until now Cameron has seemed to assume that he would bring back sufficient
powers to result in a majority voting to stay "in". Lawson's intervention makes
that vagueness hard to sustain. It would seem strange for the leader of the
Conservative party to be campaigning for Britain to stay in the EU, if his
attempts to reshape the EU had failed. The prime minister must be clearer about
what he would do in that situation.

Lawson is understandably sceptical about renegotiation. But he seems overly
defeatist. Germany is desperate for Britain to remain in the EU, as demonstrated
by the unusual invitation from Angela Merkel, the German leader, to Cameron and
his family to stay with her in Berlin last month. Germany is exasperated by what
it sees as Britain's grubby, transactional view of membership. But with France
collapsing into its Socialist slump, Merkel needs a partner who shares her
outlook on capitalism and competitiveness.

Britain and Germany are the EU's two biggest net contributors. The financial
crisis has seen many of the old rules peremptorily torn up by nation states.
With Europe distracted by the desperate fight to douse the fires raging in its
south, there is no appetite in Brussels for listening to British woes. But with
Germany now effectively in charge of the eurozone, virtually anything is
possible if Merkel says so. Could Merkel offer Britain enough to convince voters
to stay in? It would be very significant if Germany changed its position on the
financial transactions tax, the proposed levy that would damage the City of
London. With George Osborne mounting a challenge to the tax at the European
Court of Justice, parts of the German government are starting to realise that it
would hit Frankfurt as well as London and that it has alarmed global investors.

Time will tell. But time is one of many things Cameron does not have on his
side. Any Conservative prime minister would have been tortured by a right wing
for whom no negotiation will ever be enough. Any Conservative prime minister in
coalition with the Liberal Democrats would have been hamstrung over certain
kinds of legislation. But Cameron has added to his woes by listening for too
long to advisers who have told him that Europe is not a salient issue for
voters. And he has appeared too glib. If he wants to regain the initiative he
must describe the terms under which he would campaign to leave. For Nigel Lawson
has made the idea of leaving the EU respectable in a way that the other Nigel -
Farage - never could.

camilla.cavendish@sunday-times.co.uk

'THE CYNICISM ABOUT CAMERON'S INTENTIONS IS NOT SURPRISING, GIVEN THE LACK OF
CLARITY'

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Swat' teams to eradicate drugs in jails

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 740 words


A ZERO-TOLERANCE regime on drugs is to be introduced in prisons after the
government admitted controls are failing.

Ministers are to begin a crackdown in prisons using technology to stop
substances being smuggled in.

Codenamed Operation Spring Clean, the programme will begin with a trial raid on
an unidentified jail selected by the Ministry of Justice for the first clearout.

"Swat" teams of drug enforcement officers will comb the facility using sniffer
dogs and new detection technology to eradicate illegal substances from the
premises. Chris Grayling, the justice secretary, said: "Drugs in prison are a
major problem. Measures in place to try to keep them under control have not been
particularly successful.

"What we are doing is looking at a real intensive, inyour-face drive to get rid
of drugs in individual prisons to see what the implications are. I would like to
see us get to a much tougher regime across the prison system."

The raid is part of a wider programme to tackle the link between drug abuse and
crime, particularly reoffending. It involves expanding drug testing for
prisoners released on licence to include class B drugs such as cannabis and
forcing prisoners with drug addiction problems to continue rehab as a condition
of their release.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Grayling admitted that illegal substances
were "rife" in jails, leaving prison officers playing "a game of cat and mouse".

"The criminal fraternity uses ingenious methods to get drugs into prisons. There
have been examples of a rocket stuffed with drugs fired over a prison wall into
a yard; we have had tennis balls stuffed with drugs thrown over prison walls; we
even had a dead pigeon stuffed with drugs. There are some really valuable
potential new technologies available to detect them."

Grayling is establishing a reputation at Westminster as a hardline justice
secretary, in contrast to his more liberal predecessor, Ken Clarke.

He describes himself as "firmly on the Eurosceptic wing of the Conservative
party" and is engaged in a long-running battle to curb Brussels' interference in
the British justice system.

He is particularly indignant about an EU initiative under which every member
state's justice system is rated on a "scorecard" and issued with recommendations
for improvement.

"It's effectively a Trojan horse for them making specific policy recommendations
about how individual countries should run their justice systems. It will
undoubtedly be followed by European legislation to try and create a single
European system with common standards.

"We do not have to be part of that and we have made it very clear we are not
going to be part of that. We will not cooperate with the justice scorecard which
I don't believe there is any legal basis for," he said.

Eurosceptic ministers face a dilemma this week over whether to vote in favour of
a backbench Tory amendment to the Queen's speech expressing "regret" at the
absence of legislation for a referendum on Britain's relationship with the EU.

Downing Street has granted a free vote for Tories on the motion, which allows
the Conservatives to show voters that they are being constrained on the issue by
the coalition. Ministers are expected to abstain.

The Liberal Democrats are opposed to a referendum and will not even allow
Cameron to begin renegotiating Britain's ties with the EU.

Grayling said he wanted to start that process "as soon as possible" but admitted
that it was impossible before the general election in 2015. He described himself
as "passionately in favour" of holding an "in/out" referendum but insisted that
it was important to see what Britain could achieve through renegotiation with
Brussels first.

"Getting into discussions about leaving is admitting defeat on the renegotiation
before it starts," he said.

He also wants radical reforms to human rights laws, saying it is a "nonsense"
that such rules have prevented the deportation of the terrorist suspect Abu
Qatada.

Last month Theresa May, the home secretary, announced that Abu Qatada's native
Jordan had promised new safeguards to ensure he was not tortured if he was
repatriated, giving the UK "every chance" of finally getting rid of him.

However, he could still find legal mechanisms to prolong his stay in Britain.

Grayling said: "You can safely assume that the government will sweat every sinew
to make sure we get rid of him. If the current plan does not work then we will
have to look at alternatives."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption here

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HAUNTED BY THE GHOSTS OF TORIES PAST;
David Cameron hoped he had put the issue of Europe to bed. Now it's back, say
Jack Grimston and Isabel Oakeshott

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1604 words


The horse-drawn carriages were back in the royal mews and the ceremonial gowns
were stored away. The Queen's speech was done and dusted for another year. But
the political debate about what Her Majesty had said - and more importantly what
she had not said - was only just getting under way.

A couple of miles from Westminster a private dinner was taking place to discuss
Britain's relationship with Europe.

The subject was a glaring omission from the Queen's speech, particularly given
the intervention just a day earlier from one of the Conservative party's biggest
beasts: Lord Lawson, a former chancellor, had declared he would vote for Britain
to leave the "bureaucratic monstrosity" that the European Union has become.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former foreign secretary, likened Lawson's intervention
to "throwing a hand grenade into a small building".

Over red meat and fine wine at Guildhall in the City of London, 20 City figures,
political observers and a handful of MPs were in heated debate.

Andrea Leadsom, a backbencher tipped as a future party leader, could not
understand the fuss. "Nigel Lawson doesn't speak for anybody," she is said to
have told fellow guests. "The only person he consults is himself when he looks
in the mirror when he shaves."

Others disagreed, fearing Downing Street's official strategy - to renegotiate
Britain's membership of the EU before putting the results to a referendum in
2017 - will come to nothing.

Back at Westminster as Norman Lamont, another former chancellor, and Michael
Portillo, once defence secretary, backed Lawson, disappointed Tory Eurosceptics
were hitting the phones and gathering in bars to discuss their moves.

They had been given heavy hints by the party leadership that they could expect
something in the legislative programme to strengthen Cameron's commitment to an
in/out referendum.

Now they were hatching a highly unusual plot to make their disappointment known
- by putting down an amendment to the Queen's speech that "regrets that an EU
referendum bill was not included in the Gracious Speech".

For members of a governing party to criticise their own administration in this
way is almost unprecedented. Voting through the Queen's speech is meant to be a
formality.

Now No 10 has granted Tory MPs - even ministers - a free vote on the motion.

Cameron will avoid the potential embarrassment because he will be in America on
Tuesday and Wednesday when the debate will be held.

Downing Street wants ministers to abstain. But this weekend there were signs
that some ministerial aides may back the Eurosceptic amendment - among them two
parliamentary private secretaries: David Burrowes, who works for the environment
secretary Owen Paterson, and Gavin Barwell, who works for Michael Gove, the
education secretary.

Philip Cowley, a politics professor at Nottingham University and an expert on
parliamentary rebellions, described the prospect as "astonishing".

"The government is effectively saying: we don't have confidence in our own
legislative programme," he said.

The only other significant rebellion about the Queen's speech since the Second
World War by MPs of a governing party was a Labour revolt over military
conscription in 1946.

Cowley believes the Tory rebellion is "far more serious" than the one that tore
the party apart in the early 1990s because so many MPS are now defying the
leadership.

How have the Conservatives descended once again into a state of near civil war
over Europe - and can Cameron keep both his party and his coalition with the
Europhile Liberal Democrats together? UNTIL this month's local elections the
prime minister's fortunes had appeared to be reviving.

His long-awaited speech on Europe in January had temporarily quietened the
Eurosceptics; the budget was not a repeat of last year's "omnishambles" and Lady
Thatcher's death and funeral had brought the Tory tribe together. Even the
plotters against his leadership had piped down.

Then came Nigel Farage's triumph in the local elections earlier this month. The
Conservatives did not lose as many seats overall as some had feared and the
implications of UKIP's performance took a while to sink in. Now that the dust
has settled Tory MPs with smaller majorities are seriously rattled, fearing
Farage's party may cost them their seats in 2015.

They are desperate to stop the UKIP juggernaut and fear Cameron's pledge for a
referendum in 2017 is too vague and distant to work.

In recent weeks two separate campaigns have been quietly building. One, led by
the backbencher John Baron, wants legislation promising a referendum to be
passed before 2015, tying whoever wins the general election into a popular vote.

The second faction, led by the Eurosceptic veterans Bill Cash, John Redwood and
Bernard Jenkin, want a "mandate referendum" within the next year to give Cameron
the goahead to start renegotiation. At the moment the presence of Nick Clegg,
the Lib Dem leader, in the coalition means that the prime minister cannot even
start talks.

One senior rebel who is backing early legislation described bumping into Cameron
in the division lobbies a few weeks ago. "I said, let's get together for a
meeting. He said, 'Good idea - I'll be in touch.' But he hasn't responded. I've
been chasing him."

Downing Street is sniffy about the so-called mandate referendum. "I don't think
we're going to be holding two referendums," said one insider. "They're extremely
expensive, for one thing." Nevertheless, No 10 does seem to be more open to
Baron's approach.

In the meantime, Labour and the Lib Dems are delighted by the mess. They can sit
back and enjoy the familiar spectacle of Tory Eurobattles.

For now Ed Miliband is saying he does not support an in/out referendum.
Yesterday he crowed that Cameron was "not chillaxing on the sofa. He is hiding
behind the sofa, too scared to confront his rebels."

On the face of it the Labour leader's apparent refusal to contemplate a
referendum seems an unlikely vote winner. Given the strength of popular
hostility to Europe, allowing the public to have a say on the issue is a more
obvious path.

Yet Miliband could be playing a more subtle game. Gisela Stuart, a German-born
Labour MP who backs British withdrawal from the EU, thinks her party leader is
right to delay.

"If you are well positioned and your role is to oppose and you are two years
from a general election and you see the government tearing itself apart over an
issue, why would you box yourself in to anything?" she said.

Some observers believe it serves Miliband's purposes better to keep his plans
secret for another year, before he then finds a suitable excuse to change his
mind.

For Clegg, the arch Europhile, it is another flip flop - this one little
noticed. In 2008 he had campaigned hard for an in/out referendum, although there
was no question of the way he would vote.

AMID all the noise about Europe there is a real fear among loyalist Tory MPs
that Cameron's own voice is being drowned out.

This week a delegation from the so-called 2020 group of "Cameroon" MPs, which
includes a number of ministers, will go to Downing Street to warn the prime
minister that he must start showing "true leadership".

One said: "There's a danger he's like the headmaster just dealing with the
naughty boys in the corridor. He needs to listen to the quiet ones who are
getting on with it."

The fear among this set is that Cameron's "modernisation project" is faltering.
They worry that he devotes too much energy to trying to please everyone and is
not spending enough time showing voters how their lives will get better once the
austerity is over.

One loyalist, Margot James, the MP for Stourbridge, said: "I agreed from the
word go with the concept of a referendum, but I never agreed with trying to
force the pace. I don't think people should be trying to force his hand and
apply too much pressure. It is all too public as well. I'm disappointed at the
turn of events."

It may be only a crumb of comfort but, for the time being at least, one of
Cameron's most dangerous and vociferous critics is back on board.

Nadine Dorries, the scourge of the "Tory posh boys" who was suspended from the
Conservative party for bunking off parliament to appear on a reality TV show,
was last week given back the Tory whip.

Tomorrow night David Davis, another Tory "bad boy", will throw a party in her
honour in his huge Westminster office. The bash is being dubbed as "the return
of the prodigal daughter".

As many as 90 MPs and friends are expected to gather in the room of the former
leadership contender. Dorries jokes that whips are welcome - as long as they're
"accompanied by a responsible adult". For now she is one less problem for the
party leadership to worry about - but months of battles about Europe lie ahead.

Where will it all end? It could all come down to a lottery. This week MPs will
submit applications for their own pet topics to be discussed in so-called
private member bills. In a random ballot a handful are then selected for debate.
The Eurosceptics are hoping that one of their number will win, creating a real
prospect that legislation for a referendum will get parliamentary time. It will
have no hope of going through - but if Downing Street allows ministers to back
it then it could have a unifying effect on the party, if not on the coalition.

If the ballot comes out against the Eurosceptics, however, or if No 10 fails to
help them then the row could, according to one senior minister, "split the party
again".

Additional reporting: Marie Woolf Even Europeans should be sceptics now,
Editorial, page 20

'' TORY MPS WITH SMALLER MAJORITIES ARE RATTLED - FARAGE'S PARTY MAY COST THEM
THEIR SEATS

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage is forcing Cameron to the right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP in step with public mood on immigration;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 550 words


DAVID CAMERON is clearly out of touch with popular feeling ("Tories demand early
EU vote to spike UKIP guns" and "UKIP: We would strike a deal with Boris
Johnson", News, and "The rise and fall of the political class", Editorial, last
week).

The public at large are primarily concerned with the imminent prospect of yet
more immigration, not a referendum on Europe that is a way off kicking it into
the long grass. It makes no sense to ban Afghan interpreters while allowing a
potentially large influx from eastern Europe. Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader, is
the only politician with the commonsense approach.

We are among the biggest contributors to Europe and this should be a strong
negotiating factor. Trade with the EU will not be seriously affected if we
renegotiate terms, as business depends on demand and value for money. We could
also still co-operate on major projects. Brian Hardy Gravesend, Kent Losing end
If UKIP succeeds in its various objectives, what Brussels-led backlash awaits
the 1.4m British people resident within the EU who currently receive the various
health, tax and social benefits from their respective host countries? Having
newly sold up in the UK to spend our retirement in Brussels, we have more than a
passing concern UKIP policies will cast us all to the wind. Peter Macnab
Brussels Back to the UKIP future The rise of UKIP is not as significant as the
political commentators think. If the party really is a "game changer", in the
words of Farage, why did only 31% turn out to vote, despite much talk of
disaffection? UKIP made no impact at all in many areas (for example, no
candidates were elected in Oxfordshire, Hertfordshire and Bristol). UKIP
councillors do not even have to follow their own party manifesto - except to
take us back to the 1950s. Iain Phillips Stokenchurch Buckinghamshire Imperial
measure UKIP has tapped into the tribal instincts of the British people. While I
understand the need for proper immigration management and for EU reforms, I
think the reason for the rise of UKIP is that it is leading the willing and the
gullible on a merry dance, singing an idiotic song with the words, "We don't
need the rest of the world to survive." They should be reminded that Britain
would not be the sixth richest economy in the world were it not for its former
colonies.

Rowell Wilkinson London E10 Comedy double act I suppose it was inevitable that
UKIP would say it would do a deal with Boris.

Depending on your political allegiance, it will be seen as either a case of
clowns link up with a buffoon, or a Eurosceptic meeting of minds. John Stockham
Folkestone, Kent Against the wind The Sunday Times's reporting of UKIP's
election gains was comprehensive. However, what was missed is the correlation
between these gains and the areas where public opposition to wind farms is very
high.

Of all Britain's main political parties, UKIP is the only one to have a
published policy that opposes wind farms.

Dr Philip Sullivan Lutterworth, Leicestershire Union address The message to
Cameron is clear. If you want to stay in power after 2015, engineer a coalition
with UKIP, however unpalatable that may seem. Banish all talk of "fruitcakes"
and "clowns", as the public are increasingly seeing it as the pot calling the
kettle black.

Bob MacDougall Kippen, Stirlingshire

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory civil war erupts over Europe vote;
EU row engulfs Labour

BYLINE: Marie Woolf; Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1004 words


DAVID CAMERON is facing a new bout of civil war in his party as ministerial
aides prepare to back a motion condemning the Queen's speech for failing to
include a bill on an EU referendum.

Two parliamentary private secretaries to the Eurosceptic cabinet ministers
Michael Gove and Owen Paterson said they were ready to support an unprecedented
revolt by the government's own MPs against its legislative programme.

In a second blow, the prime minister is facing a warning from his own loyalist
MPs that his modernisation programme is "faltering" under right-wing pressure.

In a sign of increasing tension within the Tory ranks, a delegation from the
2020 Group, which includes a string of ministers and up-andcoming new MPs, will
go to Downing Street to urge the prime minister to show "true leadership".

Cameron will face the first challenge to his authority on Europe this week when
Tory MPs table a motion expressing "regret" that the Queen's speech did not
include legislation on an EU referendum. The stunt has sent Downing Street into
a tailspin. Yesterday No 10 was embroiled in a frantic rearguard action to
prevent a vote.

However, one rebel leader said last night that there was "no chance whatever"
that they could be persuaded to withdraw the amendment. Cameron has tried to
limit the damage by allowing backbenchers a free vote, while ministers are being
told to abstain. Parliamentary aides - the most junior government rank - would
usually be expected to follow the government line, but No 10 is allowing them to
vote according to their conscience.

A senior cabinet minister today adds to the febrile atmosphere over Europe by
hinting that he could contemplate Britain leaving the EU.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Chris Grayling, the justice secretary,
describes himself as "firmly on the Eurosceptic wing" of the Tory party. He says
Gordon Brown's decision to sign the EU's Lisbon constitutional treaty was
"disastrous for this country". He claims Britain "cannot and should not continue
without a change to its current relationship with the European Union".

"What you don't do is admit defeat before you've started, so I have not got to
the point of saying what I would do in that event," he said.

The row comes as Cameron faced further backbench criticism over the gay marriage
bill, with a series of Tory amendments seeking to water down or wreck the
legislation. Most have been tabled by David Burrowes, a government aide and
devout Christian, and are expected to be backed by up to 150 MPs.

A key amendment calls for a referendum before it become law. Another supports
registrars who do not wish to conduct gay marriages to have the right to opt
out. Another seeks more protection for religious schools and teachers who do not
wish to teach children about gay marriage.

In the face of the criticism, the government is expected to offer a concession
by producing guidance encouraging register offices to make allowances for
registrars with conscientious objections to conducting same-sex weddings.

Another backed by Tim Loughton, the former children's minister, calls for
heterosexual couples to have the right to enter a civil partnership.

The Europe rebels are determined to sustain the pressure on Cameron after the
Queen's speech vote. They hope to table a private member's bill calling for a
referendum on Europe.

One MP described this week's vote on the Queen's speech as "just the first
salvo".

As many as 100 Tory MPs are expected to support the amendment.

Most Conservative members of the cabinet are sympathetic to a referendum and are
frustrated that the Liberal Democrats blocked it from being included in the
speech.

Those expected to vote for the motion include Gavin Barwell, parliamentary
private secretary to Gove, the education secretary. He said: "I'm sympathetic to
it. If it's a free vote I will be supporting it."

Burrowes, parliamentary private secretary to Paterson, the environment
secretary, said: "I'm inclined to support it as are numerous colleagues but it's
only the first staging post."

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, is facing his own troubles over Europe.
Yesterday he insisted in a speech to the Progress group that "it is wrong now to
commit to an in/out referendum".

But a number of Eurosceptic Labour MPs are supporting the Queen's speech
amendment, which "respectfully regrets that an EU referendum bill was not
included in the Queen's speech".

They include Kate Hoey, MP for Vauxhall, John Cryer, MP for Leyton and Wanstead,
and Kelvin Hopkins, the member for Luton North.

Hoey said: "There is a substantial number of Labour MPs and voters who want to
see a referendum and it would be inconceivable for Labour to go into the next
election and not to pledge to trust the British people. It's about time they had
a say on our future relationship with Europe."

Tomorrow a new Labour group will be launched to back calls for an in/out
referendum.

Labour for a Referendum includes Eurosceptic MPs such as Hopkins and Austin
Mitchell.

In a sign of the depth of anxiety among Tory MPs, Cameron's own loyalists are
preparing to deliver a stark message about the direction he is taking the party.

Members of the so-called 2020 Group, which is supported by a string of
ministers, fear his modernisation project is foundering and is in danger of
being derailed by Eurosceptic rightwingers.

A senior member of the group said: "Our message to the prime minister is that he
needs to show true leadership.

We firmly believe he is our best asset, but he has to have the courage to be
himself, even if it means making enemies. At the moment he is just trying to
please everyone."

The group, whose founding members include Greg Barker, a senior environment
minister, argues that Cameron is not painting a sufficiently optimistic picture
for voters about how the campaign to get the nation's finances back in order
will improve their lives.

Another leading member of the group said: "People want to know what they'll have
at the end of all this austerity."

Haunted by the ghosts of Tories past, Focus, page 17

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Queen should abdicate if too ill to rule, says poll

BYLINE: James Gillespie

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 513 words


FOR the first time only a minority of voters believe the Queen should carry on
as monarch if she becomes too ill to perform her public duties, according to a
Sunday Times YouGov poll.

Although a majority - 53% - still think the Queen should remain in the role for
life and resist calls to abdicate, this is a fall from 64% in March.

When voters were asked specifically about what she should do if she became too
ill to carry out her regular royal responsibilities, only 43% thought she should
continue.

Significantly, 48% believed she should stand down in those circumstances and
allow the throne to pass to her heirs.

This is a marked turnaround from March when 51% thought she should carry on,
even if she were ill and other members of the royal family had to take over many
of her duties.

As the figures for the Queen have changed so have those for the Prince of Wales
who is experiencing an upsurge in popularity.

Of those polled last week 50% believe he will make a good king - a 13 percentage
point increase since May last year. Only 23% still have doubts and think he will
not make a good monarch, considerably fewer than the 37% who said that in May
last year.

A total of 60% believe that Charles has made a positive contribution to the
monarchy Continued on page 2 ? ? W W

Cameron loyalists fear Eurosceptics will derail him ? ? Continued from page 1
troubles over Europe. Yesterday he insisted in a speech to the Progress group
that "it is wrong now to commit to an in/out referendum".

But a number of Eurosceptic Labour MPs are supporting the Queen's speech
amendment, which "respectfully regrets that an EU referendum bill was not
included in the Queen's speech".

They include Kate Hoey, the MP for Vauxhall, John Cryer, the MP for Leyton and
Wanstead, and Kelvin Hopkins, the member for Luton North.

Hoey said: "There is a substantial number of Labour MPs and voters who want to
see a referendum and it would be inconceivable for Labour to go into the next
election and not to pledge to trust the British people.

"It's about time they had a say on our future relationship with Europe," she
said.

Tomorrow a new Labour group will be launched to back calls for an in/out
referendum.

Labour for a Referendum includes Eurosceptic MPs such as Hopkins and Austin
Mitchell.

In a sign of the depth of anxiety among Conservative MPs, Cameron's own
loyalists are preparing to deliver a stark message about the direction he is
taking the party.

Members of the so-called 2020 Group, which is supported by a string of
ministers, fear that his modernisation project is foundering and is in danger of
being derailed by Eurosceptic rightwingers.

A senior member of the group, whose founding members include Greg Barker, a
senior energy minister, said: "Our message to the prime minister is that he
needs to show true leadership. We firmly believe he is our best asset, but he
has to have the courage to be himself, even if it means making enemies. At the
moment he is just trying to please everyone."

Haunted by the ghosts of Tories past, Focus, page 17

Cameron loyalists fear Eurosceptics will [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory civil war erupts over Europe vote

BYLINE: Marie Woolf; Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 849 words


DAVID CAMERON is facing a new bout of civil war in his party as ministerial
aides prepare to back a motion condemning the Queen's speech for failing to
include a bill on an EU referendum.

Two parliamentary private secretaries to the Eurosceptic cabinet ministers
Michael Gove and Owen Paterson said they were ready to support an unprecedented
revolt by the government's own MPs against its legislative programme.

In a second blow, the prime minister is facing a warning from his own loyalist
MPs that his modernisation programme is "faltering" under right-wing pressure.

In a sign of increasing tension within the Tory ranks, a delegation from the
2020 Group, which includes a string of ministers and up-andcoming new MPs, will
go to Downing Street to urge the prime minister to show "true leadership".

Cameron will face the first challenge to his authority on Europe this week when
Tory MPs table a motion expressing "regret" that the Queen's speech did not
include legislation on an EU referendum. The stunt has sent Downing Street into
a tailspin. Yesterday No 10 was embroiled in a frantic rearguard action to
prevent a vote.

However, one rebel leader said last night that there was "no chance whatever"
that they could be persuaded to withdraw the amendment. Cameron has tried to
limit the damage by allowing backbenchers a free vote, while ministers are being
told to abstain. Parliamentary aides - the most junior government rank - would
usually be expected to follow the government line, but No 10 is allowing them to
vote according to their conscience.

A senior cabinet minister today adds to the febrile atmosphere over Europe by
hinting that he could contemplate Britain leaving the EU.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Chris Grayling, the justice secretary,
describes himself as "firmly on the Eurosceptic wing" of the Tory party. He says
Gordon Brown's decision to sign the EU's Lisbon constitutional treaty was
"disastrous for this country". He claims that Britain "cannot and should not
continue without a change to its current relationship with the European Union".

"What you don't do is admit defeat before you've started, so I have not got to
the point of saying what I would do in that event," he said.

The row comes as Cameron faced further backbench criticism over the gay marriage
bill, with a series of Tory amendments seeking to water down or wreck the
legislation. Most have been tabled by David Burrowes, a government aide and
devout Christian, and are expected to be backed by up to 150 MPs.

Another amendment, backed by Tim Loughton, the former children's minister, calls
for heterosexual couples to have the right to enter a civil partnership.

The Europe rebels are determined to sustain the pressure on Cameron after the
Queen's speech vote. They hope to table a private member's bill calling for a
referendum on Europe.

One MP described this week's vote on the Queen's speech as "just the first
salvo".

As many as 100 Tory MPs are expected to support the amendment.

Most Conservative members of the cabinet are sympathetic to a referendum and are
frustrated that the Liberal Democrats blocked it from being included in the
speech.

Those expected to vote for the motion include Gavin Barwell, parliamentary
private secretary to Gove, the education secretary. He said: "I'm sympathetic to
it. If it's a free vote I will be supporting it."

Burrowes, parliamentary private secretary to Paterson, the environment
secretary, said: "I'm inclined to support it as are numerous colleagues but it's
only the first staging post."

Ed Miliband, the Labour party leader, is facing his own Continued on page 2 ? ?
W W

Public warm to Charles Duchess of Cambridge enjoys similar popularity with 79%
seeing her contribution as positive and only 5% as negative. Despite his scrapes
in the past, Prince Harry enjoys the support of more than just the young women
of Washington and other states in America.

In Britain 72% now believe he makes a positive contribution to the monarchy,
while only 12% see him as a negative influence.

Not all the royals are regarded so positively. Asked whether Prince Andrew's
appointment as a member of the Royal Society, the scientific institution, was
appropriate as he has no scientific background, only 22% said yes. More than
double - 47% - said it was inappropriate.

Harry tosses up idea for wounded warrior Olympics, page 4 ? ? Continued from
page 1 compared with just 15% who think he has made a negative contribution.

A majority - 59% - believe that Charles should continue to speak out on issues
which concern him such as the environment and architecture if he becomes king.

However, while Charles seems to be gaining in popularity there is still little
support for the Duchess of Cornwall. Only 16% believe she should become queen,
46% prefer the title of Princess Consort and 11% believe she should have no
title at all.

The younger generation of royals, however, are doing well. Prince William has an
85% rating as making a positive contribution to the royal family compared with
only 3% who see his efforts as negative. The

Public warm to Charles Duchess [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Tory civil war erupts over Europe vote

BYLINE: Marie Woolf; Isabel Oakeshott; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 904 words


DAVID CAMERON is facing a new bout of civil war in his party as ministerial
aides prepare to back a motion condemning the Queen's speech for failing to
include a bill on an EU referendum.

Two parliamentary private secretaries to the Eurosceptic cabinet ministers
Michael Gove and Owen Paterson said they were ready to support an unprecedented
revolt by the government's own MPs against its legislative programme.

In a second blow, the prime minister is facing a warning from his own loyalist
MPs that his modernisation programme is "faltering" under right-wing pressure.

In a sign of increasing tension within the Tory ranks, a delegation from the
2020 Group, which includes a string of ministers and up-andcoming new MPs, will
go to Downing Street to urge the prime minister to show "true leadership".

Cameron will face the first challenge to his authority on Europe this week when
Tory MPs table a motion expressing "regret" that the Queen's speech did not
include legislation on an EU referendum. The stunt has sent Downing Street into
a tailspin. Yesterday No 10 was embroiled in a frantic rearguard action to
prevent a vote.

However, one rebel leader said last night that there was "no chance whatever"
that they could be persuaded to withdraw the amendment. Cameron has tried to
limit the damage by allowing backbenchers a free vote, while ministers are being
told to abstain. Parliamentary aides - the most junior government rank - would
usually be expected to follow the government line, but No 10 is allowing them to
vote according to their conscience.

A senior cabinet minister today adds to the febrile atmosphere over Europe by
hinting that he could contemplate Britain leaving the EU.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Chris Grayling, the justice secretary,
describes himself as "firmly on the Eurosceptic wing" of the Tory party. He says
Gordon Brown's decision to sign the EU's Lisbon constitutional treaty was
"disastrous for this country". He claims that Britain "cannot and should not
continue without a change to its current relationship with the European Union".

"What you don't do is admit defeat before you've started, so I have not got to
the point of saying what I would do in that event," he said.

The row comes as Cameron faced further backbench criticism over the gay marriage
bill, with a series of Tory amendments seeking to water down or wreck the
legislation. Most have been tabled by David Burrowes, a government aide and
devout Christian, and are expected to be backed by up to 150 MPs.

Another amendment, backed by Tim Loughton, the former children's minister, calls
for heterosexual couples to have the right to enter a civil partnership.

The Europe rebels are determined to sustain the pressure on Cameron after the
Queen's speech vote. They hope to table a private member's bill calling for a
referendum on Europe.

One MP described this week's vote on the Queen's speech as "just the first
salvo".

As many as 100 Tory MPs are expected to support the amendment.

Most Conservative members of the cabinet are sympathetic to a referendum and are
frustrated that the Liberal Democrats blocked it from being included in the
speech.

Those expected to vote for the motion include Gavin Barwell, parliamentary
private secretary to Gove, the education secretary. He said: "I'm sympathetic to
it. If it's a free vote I will be supporting it."

Burrowes, parliamentary private secretary to Paterson, the environment
secretary, said: "I'm inclined to support it as are numerous colleagues but it's
only the first staging post."

Ed Miliband, the Labour party leader, is facing his own Continued on page 2 ? ?
W W

Cameron loyalists fear Eurosceptics will derail him ? ? Continued from page 1
troubles over Europe. Yesterday he insisted in a speech to the Progress group
that "it is wrong now to commit to an in/out referendum".

But a number of Eurosceptic Labour MPs are supporting the Queen's speech
amendment, which "respectfully regrets that an EU referendum bill was not
included in the Queen's speech".

They include Kate Hoey, the MP for Vauxhall, John Cryer, the MP for Leyton and
Wanstead, and Kelvin Hopkins, the member for Luton North.

Hoey said: "There is a substantial number of Labour MPs and voters who want to
see a referendum and it would be inconceivable for Labour to go into the next
election and not to pledge to trust the British people.

"It's about time they had a say on our future relationship with Europe," she
said.

Tomorrow a new Labour group will be launched to back calls for an in/out
referendum.

Labour for a Referendum includes Eurosceptic MPs such as Hopkins and Austin
Mitchell.

In a sign of the depth of anxiety among Conservative MPs, Cameron's own
loyalists are preparing to deliver a stark message about the direction he is
taking the party.

Members of the so-called 2020 Group, which is supported by a string of
ministers, fear that his modernisation project is foundering and is in danger of
being derailed by Eurosceptic rightwingers.

A senior member of the group, whose founding members include Greg Barker, a
senior energy minister, said: "Our message to the prime minister is that he
needs to show true leadership. We firmly believe he is our best asset, but he
has to have the courage to be himself, even if it means making enemies. At the
moment he is just trying to please everyone."

Haunted by the ghosts of Tories past, Focus, page 17

Cameron loyalists fear Eurosceptics will [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Where it went wrong;
What's missing from this bird's-eye view of the euro crisis is an in-depth study
of how the politicians failed us

BYLINE: DAVID GOODHART

SECTION: CULTURE;FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 864 words


THE LOST CONTINENT

by GAVIN HEWITT

Hodder £20/ebook £10.99 pp368

Gavin Hewitt is no eurosceptic. As the BBC's Europe editor since 2009, he has
been the balanced, familiar face of the euro crisis. Yet he has written a
profoundly eurosceptic book about that crisis, because the facts themselves
yield no other conclusion.

The euro crisis is, at one level, a baffling series of late-night summit
meetings in bland Brussels offices where the weaker eurozone countries are
forced to accept bail-out deals that strive to reassure the capital markets
while also respecting the red lines of the German politicians who will have to
pay the biggest part.

At another level, however, it is an epic political tragedy: a slow-motion car
crash for the secular religion of "ever closer union" that animated two
generations of European politicians and has now produced outcomes precisely the
opposite of those intended. The creation of a common currency without a common
finance ministry for economies as different as Germany and Greece has proved as
hubristic as many predicted. And a mechanism intended to render national
"egotism" irrelevant and to disperse German power has instead inflamed national
feeling, especially in the weaker southern European states, and concentrated
political decision-making over the future of Europe in the German chancellor's
office. Instead of European countries and peoples growing more alike (and who
ever thought that was a good idea?), they are now learning from their newspapers
about how different their holiday entitlements and civil-service pensions are.

Hewitt touches on these themes, but this is mainly a work of reportage, a
briskly written digest of recent events. Which makes one wonder who the book is
for. It has little new to say, though it is full of useful detail about the
conflict between global markets and the EU machine on the one hand and national
democracy on the other (especially in Greece and Italy). Nor is it a work of
economics that explains why the euro was never going to work without fiscal
union and/or the intricacies of government debt and the bond markets that
regulate it.

By providing an accessible bird's-eye view, though, it does make one think of
the books that are needed to understand the turmoil that is set to condemn most
Europeans to significantly lower levels of wealth and contentment over the next
two decades.

What we need, above all, is a proper intellectual history of the revolt against
the nation in postwar Europe. It is easy enough to understand why, after two
world wars and a Holocaust, the EU founders wanted, step by step, to create
cross-national institutions that would first render war impossible and then
national allegiance unnecessary. But having achieved the first goal (with the
help of Nato and the Soviets), why did politicians persist with the second goal
well into the 1990s, and the formation of the euro, when the nation state had
become so clearly liberal and benign: more concerned with child-benefit levels
than the size of your fleet? Why did so much of the European political class
risk running so far ahead of popular feeling, and why, even after the euro
disaster, does it not only express no remorse but persist in believing that a
rearrangement of the euro to exclude most of the "Club Med" countries would be a
disaster of such magnitude that it could lead to war?

One answer to that question can be found in the European political method:
manoeuvring national polities into accepting as inevitable the integrationist
policies that they don't want. It is worth remembering that this method, which
now seems so out of step with our hyperdemocratic age, seemed quite reasonable
in the 1950s. Democracy had been partly discredited by the Depression, war and
the electoral success of Nazism. Moreover, even in a country such as Britain
where this did not apply, the EU was formed in a more deferential age in which
foreign-policy matters were seen as above politics.

The liberal baby-boomer generation inherited and even amplified a suspicion of
the nation state but it did try to break out of the EU's elitist method.
Referendums were adopted, with mixed results, and the EU story evolved from
being about ending war to pooling sovereignty to tame globalisation. But the
political problem remains: as the European analyst Mark Leonard has put it, the
EU has a common policy-making machine without a common politics.

It is a shame that Britain has been so peripheral to this argument. Hewitt's
chapter on the wielding of the British veto in 2011 is embarrassing to read. It
also begs yet another, bigger question: as a past master of the balance of power
in Europe, why have we not been shaping and leading an outer ring of the EU, one
that would stick with the single market and a bit of sovereignty-pooling in
global negotiations? As it is, by seeking a few more opt-outs for Britain prior
to a referendum, David Cameron has appeared narrowly self-interested and handed
over our destiny to the German chancellor.

* David Goodhart is the director of Demos and author of The British Dream. The
Lost Continent is available at the Bookshop price of £16 (inc p&p) and £10.99
(ebook) on 0845 271 2135

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Euro disaster zone: riots in Athens in December 2009
DIMITRI MESSINIS/AP PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Moral black hole of politics drags us down

BYLINE: KEVIN MYERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1102 words


Later this year the awesome Event Horizon Telescope, a virtual worldwide
telescope uniting radio dishes around the globe, will for the first time study
the black hole at the heart of the Milky Way. It will do this by tracking the
gas cloud G2 as it moves under the influence of a supermassive black hole,
Sagittarius A. Frankly, it would be even more impressive if political scientists
were able to examine the black hole at the heart of the state, which sucks in
vast amounts of resources, political will and finance, regardless of the wishes
of the people.

And though administration of this black hole has varied over the years, the
beneficiaries from its gravitational deductions never really change. They are
all members of the politico-administrative classes, who are rewarded,
regardless. Every now and then the equivalent of the G2 cloud passes close by,
and we get a brief insight into how this black hole works.

Enter Mary Hanafin, our current G2, and a curious conjunction of the many forces
that have rendered governance in Ireland as much a matter of reward for the
nomenklatura as for the provision of services for the governed. Her father, Des
Hanafin, was a co-founder of the Society for the Protection of Unborn Children,
which effectively bullied an abject political class into endorsing the ludicrous
abortion referendum 30 years ago, with a consequent paralysis on the issue ever
since.

Mary Hanafin, armed with a weaponsgrade sweetness of public persona, was a key
figure in the various Fianna Fail-PDGreen governments which turned the state
into a milch-cow for our political and administrative classes. However, even a
political hide as tough as depleted uranium could not save her in the
Gotterdammerung that consumed Fianna Fail in the last election.

But all was not lost, for her generation of politicians had prepared
meticulously to ensure the consequences of failure were not too painful.
Although aged only 53, she now draws a lifelong index-linked annual government
pension of (EURO)112,000, which is only 34% less than David Cameron's income as
Britain's prime minister.

Hanafin is now suggesting she would like a seat in the European parliament,
presumably while tenaciously holding on to that pension. Yes, she truly embodies
an EU-wide and almost pathological sense of entitlement which has made Europe's
elites so reviled by their electorates.

These local elites generally survive, because they protect themselves like herd
animals. What do we see when we examine the boards of the financial services
sector but the same grisly personnel from the same grisly carousel of our
political classes. Former Dail politicians, all of them on state pensions equal
to or greater than Hanafin's, are also "public interest" directors on our ruined
banks, with fees to match. They include Ray MacSharry ((EURO)183,000 to date),
Dick Spring ((EURO)132,000) and Joe Walsh ((EURO)238,000). Meanwhile, Alan Dukes
has earned (EURO)490,000 from being chairman at IBRC.

Moreover, the state-funded merry-goround picks up its privileged passengers from
way beyond the ranks of Dail Eireann. Key members of this nomenklatura are the
public-service unions, which have effectively been protected from the worst of
the recession that has devastated the private sector and turned even prime
rental areas such as Merrion Square in Dublin into Berlin, circa 1945. For all
the talk about the bailout of our banks, the really calamitous levels of
government borrowings result from the ongoing and open-ended public-service pay
and pensions. So given the symbiotic relationship between unions and TDs, it's
really not surprising there's been so little adverse comment in the Dail about
the missing millions of public money that Siptu spent on junkets, holidays and
"hospitality", on which nearly (EURO)100,000 was squandered.

Siptu spent (EURO)12,700 of our money jetting union officials to Orlando in
Florida; (EURO)8,300 was the cost of getting union apparatchiks to Lanzarote.
What other shenanigans were our beloved Siptu officials up to? Don't know: all
hidden within our state's many other black holes.

But it's the failure of this republic to prepare legislation in response to the
Supreme Court's ruling on the X case 21 years ago that reveals how thoroughly
our political elites can ignore their primary duties as lawmakers. This, after
all, was a commandment from the foremost legal institution of the land.

Lawmakers are seldom given the specifics for framing a law by the body that will
then have to test its constitutionality. It was, in its way, a heaven-sent
opportunity to match legislative design to judicial purpose; a sneak glimpse of
a vital exam paper a week in advance. Yet this one pre-specified duty was what
the lawmakers flunked, and not just for the lifetime of a Dail, but for an epoch
as long as that which contained the ending of the First World War, the arrival
of the Great Slump, the rise of Hitler, and the Nazi invasion of Poland.

However, during this time they were not completely idle, as they created both
for themselves and for their vast client-administrative class the most generous
trough that public-sector snouts have ever known in a democracy.

That someone would die because of their political dilatoriness doesn't seem to
have entered the Dail's communal mind - even though an obstetric death was an
actuarial certainty: all that was needed was time's melting snows to bring a
glacier down on the life of some poor woman. Thus a querulously generous Dail
Eireann gave death all the time required.

Yet paradoxically, our TDs were almost unlucky that only women staff, and an
African male doctor, were on duty when poor Savita Halappanavar died. Had any
white Irish males been present that night in University Hospital Galway they
probably would (perhaps rather usefully from the TDs' point of view) have been
lynched by those single-issue quangos that ensure debate in Ireland seldom
strays on the leeward side of hysterical.

So naturally, throughout the odious self-congratulation among TDs over the
"civilised" tone of their recent debate on abortion, there's been no public
self-recrimination over their own failures. Yet had Ms X given birth, her
girl-child today might well be a university graduate, able to vote and to buy
alcohol and, if suffering from an unstable pregnancy, still liable to death by
sudden septicaemia. We therefore don't actually need the equivalent of a G2
gas-cloud to show us where we have gone wrong.

Savita means "sun" in Sanskrit. Her needless death surely illuminates the moral
bankruptcy at the heart of our body politic.

kevin.myers@sunday-times.ie

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tories want vote to spike UKIP guns;
The success of Farage's party emboldened MPs to call for a snap EU poll. By Jack
Grimston and Isabel Oakeshott

BYLINE: Jack Grimston ; Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1506 words


DAVID CAMERON faces a campaign from Eurosceptic MPs to hold a British referendum
on Europe within the next year to head off the "insurgency" from the UK
Independence party.

Cameron has already promised a vote after the 2015 general election but critics
argue that he needs to move earlier because his pledge failed to stem the surge
by Nigel Farage's party at last week's local elections. UKIP won 22% of the
popular vote and gained 139 council seats.

The proposed pre-election vote is designed to give the UK prime minister a
popular mandate to start talks on a looser relationship with Brussels.
Supporters of the plan, who say they are backed by 50-100 Tory MPs, argue it
would persuade voters that Cameron would not backtrack on his vow to repatriate
powers from Brussels. Bernard Jenkin, the MP for Harwich and North Essex, and
one of the organisers, said: "A number of us have been quietly debating this
proposal with the chancellor [George Osborne] and with the prime minister
himself ... and I believe a number in cabinet have also been doing so."

Priti Patel, the MP for Witham, added: "I am up for it [a pre-election
referendum]. Bring it on. The public are sick of promises ... this is about
getting specific."

The campaign for an early Europe vote comes amid soulsearching in the main
parties about how to respond to the election results. An analysis by Michael
Thrasher and Colin Rallings, election experts at Plymouth University, found that
for the first time since their records began in 1979, no single party scored at
least 30% of the national vote at a local election.

The professors' research suggests that if the results are repeated in 2015,
Labour will scrape to victory in the general election, with a majority of 12.
Many MPs expect another coalition, arguing that "four-party politics" will
become the norm.

Cameron, who had described UKIP party members as fruitcakes and closet racists,
acknowledged that it was time to stop the insults, saying: "We need to show
respect for people who have taken the choice to support this party. And we're
going to work really hard to win them back."

There was anger among some senior Tory figures about the contribution of Ken
Clarke, the Europhile cabinet minister, who last weekend dismissed UKIP as
clowns.

One MP reportedly said he had "outlived his usefulness" Lord Ashcroft, the Tory
peer, tweeted: "Congratulations to the 'clowns' and 'fruitcakes'!!! That
worked!!" Farage, who was fishing for sea bass in the Channel yesterday for an
evening barbecue, said after the results: "We've been abused by everybody,
attacked by the entire establishment, who did their best to stop ordinary,
decent people from going out and voting UKIP. The establishment has been shocked
and stunned."

Among Labour, the mood was cautiously optimistic, despite the party winning
fewer than 300 new council seats. The party's official target of at least
200-250 was modest, allowing spin doctors to claim they had achieved their aim.
Privately, most Labour MPs would have liked more than 300 gains. However, Ed
Miliband's strategists are emphasising that the seats the party did win were in
the constituencies they need to seize for a majority in 2015.

They point out that the local elections did not take place in Labour heartlands.
About 80% of the areas where local elections took place elected a Tory MP in
2010 - making last week's elections difficult for Miliband's party. "Most of our
key [target] seats didn't have elections but in almost two dozen areas we are
targeting for 2015, the local election results suggest we would have won with
ease," said one strategist.

Michael Dugher, vicechairman of the party, said: "It's not 'job done' but it
does show really good progress. Labour showed that we could win again, including
in the south of England and in the target marginal seats we need to take in
2015."

However, Thrasher and Rallings described Labour's performance as "patchy and in
some respects under-cooked".

They said: "Labour in opposition should have more of a cushion over the Tories,
two years out from a general election, to have a real prospect of winning an
overall majority."

The Liberal Democrats lost 124 councillors and came seventh in the South Shields
byelection, losing their deposit. Nick Clegg, the party leader and deputy prime
minister, said it was part of the Lib Dems' "journey" from being "a party of
protest to a party of government".

He said voters were attracted by UKIP's "simple answers" to the country's
"complex problems".

But it is the Tories that face the greatest threat to their electoral base from
UKIP. The Conservatives lost 335 councillors and the control of 10 councils.

Some Tories believe that UKIP tapped into popular anger at an apparently
out-of-touch political elite. Patel said: "There is a mood against the
establishment; the anti-establishment party has done well. I sense particularly
from my own constituents, they feel that the main political parties look the
same, sound the same, sit in the middle, live on the same street, went to school
together."

David Davis, the former Tory leadership challenger, said yesterday the party had
to change the impression that it was "privileged and out of touch". He added:
"Please, please no more Old Etonian advisers," referring to Cameron's
appointment of Jo Johnson - brother of Boris, London's mayor - and Jesse Norman,
another backbencher, to his policy team. Davis is among those backing a
preelection referendum. Cameron and Theresa May, the UK home secretary, hinted
last week that they would be open to moving on Europe before 2015. Options
include passing legislation to promise a post-election referendum. This is
backed by about 100 backbenchers, led by John Baron, MP for Basildon and
Billericay.

Senior Tories who want Cameron to go further on Europe before 2015 include Boris
Johnson. A friend of the mayor said: "He welcomes legislation pre-2015 so we can
move as soon as possible after the election.

The PM should ram home the point pre-2015 and Boris is confident he will."

Johnson would support a referendum within the next two years - but only in the
unlikely event that Cameron can complete his renegotiation by then. David
Ruffley, MP for Bury St Edmunds, said: "The UKIP insurgency has taken the
leadership by surprise. We need to toughen up our position on Europe ... and I
think we will need to seriously talk about having a referendum before the Euro
elections next year."

In theory, a referendum law could be passed before the end of this year,
allowing a vote to be held next summer. This could include a list of areas where
Cameron would return powers from the EU to Britain.

Downing Street officials are worried that Clegg would block the bill, seeing it
as a matter of internal Tory management rather than a national priority.

Some in Downing Street also fear that holding a vote before the election would
lose the Tories a key electoral advantage - they are the only one of the three
big parties supporting a referendum. Supporters of the plan believe this would
be countered by UKIP voters returning to the Tory fold.

The rise and fall of the political class, Editorial, page 12

Council seats Conservatives Labour Lib Dems UKIP Green Others 187 seats 147
seats 1,116 seats 538 seats 22 seats 352 seats - 335 +291 - 124 +139 +5 +24
Councils Vote share 45 - 10 Conservatives: 18 First time since records began in
1979 that no single party has scored at least 30% of the national vote at a
local election 40 40 Labour: 3 +2 35 No overall control: 13 +8 30 29 Lab Con 26
26 25 24 UKIP 22 Election result 20 15 Lib Dem 13 Source: Rallings and Thrasher
10 2007 2008 2009 2011 2012 2013 Nottinghamshire: Labour narrowly win back
contol with a majority of 1 UKIP gains Norfolk: Tories lose 20 seats and control
of the council UKIP won six wards in Buckinghamshire, five of which are on the
HS2 route Stone and Waddesdon UKIP gain: 27.4% of vote Lincolnshire: UKIP win 16
seats, forcing a hung council Aylesbury North West UKIP gain: 44.8% Aylesbury
South West UKIP gain: 35.1% Wendover, Halton & Stoke Mandeville UKIP gain: 36.3%
Great Missenden UKIP gain: 40.7%

The future Which of the following would you most like to see after the next
election? Majority Tory government 29% Majority Labour government 31% Tory/Lib
Dem coalition 6% Labour/Lib Dem coalition 14% Don't know 20% Source: YouGov
Commons projection 243 -64 Conservative Labour 331 +72 Liberal Democrat 50 -7
Labour majority: 12 UKIP 0 Other 26 -2 Source: Rallings and Thrasher Voters'
reactions 49% Believe Ken Clarke, right, describing UKIP as a collection of
clowns was unfair Believe Ken Clarke, right, collection of clowns was unfair 77%
Believe it was bad tactics for the Conservatives to label UKIP as a collection
of clowns Believe it was bad tactics for the Conservatives to label UKIP as a
collection of clowns 53% Of people think David Cameron has responded badly to
the rise of UKIP. 18% believe he has responded well Of people think David
Cameron has responded badly to the rise of UKIP. 18% believe he Source: YouGov

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Where it went wrong;
What's missing from this bird's-eye view of the euro crisis is an in-depth study
of how the politicians failed us

BYLINE: DAVID GOODHART

SECTION: CULTURE;FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 864 words


THE LOST CONTINENT

by GAVIN HEWITT

Hodder £20/ebook £10.99 pp368

Gavin Hewitt is no eurosceptic. As the BBC's Europe editor since 2009, he has
been the balanced, familiar face of the euro crisis. Yet he has written a
profoundly eurosceptic book about that crisis, because the facts themselves
yield no other conclusion.

The euro crisis is, at one level, a baffling series of late-night summit
meetings in bland Brussels offices where the weaker eurozone countries are
forced to accept bail-out deals that strive to reassure the capital markets
while also respecting the red lines of the German politicians who will have to
pay the biggest part.

At another level, however, it is an epic political tragedy: a slow-motion car
crash for the secular religion of "ever closer union" that animated two
generations of European politicians and has now produced outcomes precisely the
opposite of those intended. The creation of a common currency without a common
finance ministry for economies as different as Germany and Greece has proved as
hubristic as many predicted. And a mechanism intended to render national
"egotism" irrelevant and to disperse German power has instead inflamed national
feeling, especially in the weaker southern European states, and concentrated
political decision-making over the future of Europe in the German chancellor's
office. Instead of European countries and peoples growing more alike (and who
ever thought that was a good idea?), they are now learning from their newspapers
about how different their holiday entitlements and civil-service pensions are.

Hewitt touches on these themes, but this is mainly a work of reportage, a
briskly written digest of recent events. Which makes one wonder who the book is
for. It has little new to say, though it is full of useful detail about the
conflict between global markets and the EU machine on the one hand and national
democracy on the other (especially in Greece and Italy). Nor is it a work of
economics that explains why the euro was never going to work without fiscal
union and/or the intricacies of government debt and the bond markets that
regulate it.

By providing an accessible bird's-eye view, though, it does make one think of
the books that are needed to understand the turmoil that is set to condemn most
Europeans to significantly lower levels of wealth and contentment over the next
two decades.

What we need, above all, is a proper intellectual history of the revolt against
the nation in postwar Europe. It is easy enough to understand why, after two
world wars and a Holocaust, the EU founders wanted, step by step, to create
cross-national institutions that would first render war impossible and then
national allegiance unnecessary. But having achieved the first goal (with the
help of Nato and the Soviets), why did politicians persist with the second goal
well into the 1990s, and the formation of the euro, when the nation state had
become so clearly liberal and benign: more concerned with child-benefit levels
than the size of your fleet? Why did so much of the European political class
risk running so far ahead of popular feeling, and why, even after the euro
disaster, does it not only express no remorse but persist in believing that a
rearrangement of the euro to exclude most of the "Club Med" countries would be a
disaster of such magnitude that it could lead to war?

One answer to that question can be found in the European political method:
manoeuvring national polities into accepting as inevitable the integrationist
policies that they don't want. It is worth remembering that this method, which
now seems so out of step with our hyperdemocratic age, seemed quite reasonable
in the 1950s. Democracy had been partly discredited by the Depression, war and
the electoral success of Nazism. Moreover, even in a country such as Britain
where this did not apply, the EU was formed in a more deferential age in which
foreign-policy matters were seen as above politics.

The liberal baby-boomer generation inherited and even amplified a suspicion of
the nation state but it did try to break out of the EU's elitist method.
Referendums were adopted, with mixed results, and the EU story evolved from
being about ending war to pooling sovereignty to tame globalisation. But the
political problem remains: as the European analyst Mark Leonard has put it, the
EU has a common policy-making machine without a common politics.

It is a shame that Britain has been so peripheral to this argument. Hewitt's
chapter on the wielding of the British veto in 2011 is embarrassing to read. It
also begs yet another, bigger question: as a past master of the balance of power
in Europe, why have we not been shaping and leading an outer ring of the EU, one
that would stick with the single market and a bit of sovereignty-pooling in
global negotiations? As it is, by seeking a few more opt-outs for Britain prior
to a referendum, David Cameron has appeared narrowly self-interested and handed
over our destiny to the German chancellor.

David Goodhart is the director of Demos and author of The British Dream. The
Lost Continent is available at the Bookshop price of £16 (inc p&p) and £10.99
(ebook) on 0845 271 2135

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Euro disaster zone: riots in Athens in December 2009
DIMITRI MESSINIS/AP PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE RISE AND FALL OF THE POLITICAL CLASS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 759 words


Nothing better sums up the triumph of the UK Independence party in Thursday's
local elections than the abrupt shift in tone by the mainstream parties to it
and its supporters. UKIP, once memorably dismissed by David Cameron as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists", and by the Tories' Europhile grandee
Ken Clarke as "clowns" just a few days ago, now has to be treated with respect
for fear of offending the average 25% of voters who backed it.

So for Mr Cameron now: "It is no good insulting a political party that people
have chosen to vote for. We need to show respect for people who have taken the
choice to support this party and we are going to work really hard to win them
back."

Mr Clarke will be kept firmly in his box and the Tories, as far as the
constraints of coalition allow, will toughen up its policies on immigration and
explore the possibility of legislating for an in-out referendum on the European
Union to head off an even bigger triumph for UKIP in next year's European
parliament elections where the smart money is now on the party coming first.
Labour, for its part, will seek to respond to the concerns of workingclass
voters on immigration and the justifiable perception that it is a hopelessly
soft touch on welfare.

If the mainstream parties believe that any of this will be enough to dent UKIP's
appeal they are sadly deluded. UKIP is part of a bigger trend, reflected in the
rise of the Tea Party in America, the True Finns in Finland, Golden Dawn and
Syriza in Greece, the Danish People's party, Beppe Grillo's Five Star Movement
in Italy and new parties in Holland, Switzerland and Austria. People are either
fed up with austerity or are bruised by forces outside their control, whether
these are the power of Brussels or the consequences of globalisation, including
immigration.

In all this they do not just feel badly served by the mainstream parties, they
also feel insulted by them. Inside the Westminster village the political game is
being played but to empty stadiums. In a radio interview last week Ed Miliband
failed to convince even as a very good policy wonk, let alone a good party
leader, and the Tories and Liberal Democrats rubbed their hands in glee.

Out there is the real world, however, little of this matters. Labour is a
discredited brand but so are the Tories and Lib Dems. Inverted snobbery is a
vice, but at a time when Mr Cameron and George Osborne needed to get away from
the "two posh boys" tag, the mind boggles at the calculation that led the prime
minister to decide to do an impression of Lord Snooty and his pals: yet more Old
Etonians have been invited to join the chum-ocracy of No 10.

The bigger issue is about the kind of politics and politicians that we want. An
anti-politics none-of-the-above vote can, by its nature, only be temporary. The
closer the antipoliticians get to power, the more they evolve into politicians.
By putting UKIP policies under greater scrutiny its rivals will hope to make the
party's shortcomings look at least as big as their own.

What they cannot do is change the fact that Mr Cameron, Mr Miliband and Nick
Clegg are cut from the same cloth, as are the vast majority of our leading
politicians. The route into career politics is now as mapped out as any graduate
entry programme: party researcher, special adviser, MP, minister. The only
character-building that happens during this process is to build characters
insulated from real-world experience. Life in the political salons gives you
little or no insight into what is on people's minds in the nation's living
rooms.

That is why Nigel Farage is different. Research by YouGov, the Sunday Times
pollster, found the UKIP leader is regarded by voters as "a genuine person with
genuine opinions" who "speaks his mind" and "knows what the country wants". The
man dismissed as an anachronistic golf club bore by the Westminster
sophisticates is liked because he is a character. The voters, rightly or
wrongly, think he has principles - and sticks to them.

Whatever they do in the next two years, none of the three main party leaders
seems able to woo support beyond his tribe. The only politician who can come
close to doing so is Boris Johnson, who has overcome the political disadvantages
of his Eton education and has the populism, character and instinctive
Euroscepticism that appeal to voters. Many Tory MPs, as they survey their 2015
re-election prospects in the wake of Thursday's results, may come round to this
view. UKIP's triumph means the politics of the next two years will be very
interesting indeed.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

They're all now making plans for Nigel

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1068 words


Sometimes it can be perilous to wear a suit and tie in a public place. There I
was, standing on the edge of the small crowd surrounding Ed Miliband in Crawley
town centre, when an angry elderly lady in a leather jacket came up to me and
demanded: "What are you going to do about immigration?" Fortunately, the Labour
leader has taken to running his campaign stumps Jerry Springer-style, so I
pointed my questioner in his direction and they were soon locked in animated
conversation.

This happened before the votes were counted. Now that UKIP has brought
four-party politics to England at the expense of Labour, the Liberal Democrats
and the Conservatives, all three mainstream parties must decide how they counter
the insurgents - do they pander to them or oppose? It was clear from the Labour
leader's sortie into West Sussex that populism can bring its own dangers as
surely as sporting office attire. Miliband's sympathetic promise that Labour
would restrict housing access for recent migrants failed to satisfy his
audience, and was met by a sour heckle from the back of the crowd: "At least
they get houses." Other questions from shoppers who paused to listen raised Abu
Qatada, welfare and the NHS.

For all Miliband's genuine desire to connect with the public, I had to wonder if
this proud son of immigrants was really comfortable with this kind of
conversation. He assured me that he enjoyed talking to the "unpersuaded, even
the unpersuadable", but if he can't convert them to his cause, was this the best
use of his campaigning day? UKIP has indeed sent a "shockwave" through
establishment politics, as Nigel Farage is boasting. The foundations will
continue to tremble at least until the European elections in May next year.
Conventional wisdom is now that UKIP will top their second place last time in
this proportional representation election for a parliament about which we care
little.

Second place in the votes actually cast in the English shires this election, and
a projected third place ahead of the Lib Dems in national equivalent vote share,
clearly parks the UKIP tanks on the political map. Even if it isn't winning a
big number of seats in first-past-the-post elections (UKIP got 6% of the seats
and 25% of the votes in these elections), England's new insurgent party is
disrupting the electoral calculations of the main parties.

For example, at mid-term in these austere times, the Labour opposition would
normally have hoped for a healthy notional overall majority at the expense of
both unpopular coalition partners, rather than the fragile majority of about 12
Westminster seats that the experts have projected from last week's results.

Labour made only a halting recovery from its worst local election performance,
in 2009, not even beating the 29% share that lost Gordon Brown the premiership
in 2010.

The Lib Dems have yet again found out that the transformation from party of
protest to party of power has cost them votes. Disenchanted voters used to turn
away from the Tories and Labour; now they've given up on the coalition junior
partners as well.

These elections may have brought some private consolation to Nick Clegg - his
party performed a bit better in those areas where MPs and councillors are dug
in, including his home base of Sheffield. If the split in the right-of-centre
vote between Tories and UKIP holds, there is a real prospect that the Lib Dems
could hang on to most of their current MPs in 2015, while still shedding votes
by the ballot-box-load.

For now the Lib Dem leadership advocates hugging tight to the coalition,
suppressing Europhile convictions and talking almost as tough as the Tories on
immigration, welfare and the economy. But there must be a temptation to dump
their deputy prime minister some time from late 2014 onwards, in the immediate
run-up to the general election.

UKIP's surge damages the Tories most. But party leaders also claim it gives them
the best chance of salvation, because Farage has borrowed more votes from
Cameron than from Clegg or Miliband.

According to the Tories' private polling, there is a resounding "No!" to the
question, "Would you still vote UKIP if you let in a Labour or Liberal Democrat
MP?" This, and the rather blunter truth that it's only by returning a Tory
government that you'll get an EU referendum, may be enough to scare back some
disgruntled Tory voters.

Those who believe that UKIP's policy offer is now more truly blue than David
Cameron's won't be lured back so easily. To reach them, the PM is trying to
shift the Conservative platform rightwards, a difficult task if he is to
maintain his vital appeal to the centre ground.

On Wednesday the Queen's speech will include an immigration bill, curtailing the
access of recent arrivals to UK rights such as the NHS, along the lines of the
speech Cameron delivered in Ipswich at the end of March. Significantly, the Lib
Dem leadership plans to support this measure.

A drift to the right was already well under way in the run-up to the council
polls, with talk of tougher prison conditions, benefit clampdowns and even the
end of foreign aid to South Africa. The promise of an in-out EU referendum is
the purple coulis on the soufflé.

Cameron has not paused to reflect that none of these nudges stopped the surge in
support for UKIP. A synthetic row over non-binding preparatory legislation for
the referendum isn't likely do the trick.

The PM will be lucky to appease his critics on the right, such as the No Turning
Back group of MPs and the former Thatcherite peers Norman Tebbit and Tim Bell.
What they really want is the break-up of the coalition, the abandonment of
same-sex marriage and a commitment to pull out of the EU - precisely the reverse
takeover of the Conservative party that Farage dreams of.

If you go back a generation, before sterling's ejection from the ERM in 1992,
all three main parties were enthusiastic supporters of Europe and of freedom of
movement within its borders. Not even the Lib Dems speak up for greater EU
integration now.

There are many reasons for this gradual change in the political mood - among
them a sense that politicians were failing to listen to the public. Cameron,
Miliband and Clegg should be careful not to overcompensate, since the best UKIP
has done so far is a good second place.

UKIP has staked out its territory and it won't be dislodged easily. Who is the
joke on? And who are the pretenders now? @adamboultonsky

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP: We would do deal with Boris;
Tory right backs UKIP pact

BYLINE: Camilla Long; Isabel Oakeshott; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 740 words


THE UKIP treasurer says its leadership would rather deal with Boris Johnson than
with David Cameron in the run-up to the next election.

Stuart Wheeler, the multimillionaire former Tory donor, said it was "much more
likely" that his party could work with the mayor of London than the prime
minister on a potential pact in certain constituencies in the 2015 general
election.

Nigel Farage's party does not trust Cameron to deliver a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU and believes Johnson is a truer Eurosceptic.

"If Boris Johnson's policies were acceptable, which I think on the whole they
would be, I would be happy to do that [a deal]," Wheeler said. He suggested that
if Johnson became Tory leader, there would be significant potential for talks
between the two parties. UKIP insiders indicated last night that Farage shared
Wheeler's view.

Cameron is under pressure from his backbenchers to prevent UKIP gaining more
momentum after its success in last week's council elections. It gained 139
council seats.

While the Tories' loss of 335 seats was not as many as some had feared, MPs in
marginal seats are alarmed by the number of votes they are losing to UKIP. There
is speculation that the party could even be close to securing its only MP.
Nadine Dorries, who was suspended from the Tory party last year for taking time
off from parliament to appear in the reality TV show I'm a Celebrity, has
refused to rule out switching allegiance.

Some MPs believe Cameron should try to neutralise the threat posed by UKIP in
marginal seats by forging a "nonaggression pact" with Farage at local or even
national level. Under such a deal, UKIP would agree not to field candidates for
certain seats, where the Tory candidate pledged to support  UKIP's Eurosceptic
agenda. Wheeler said, in an interview with The Sunday Times, that Farage had
ruled out any deal with Cameron because of the prime minister's description of
UKIP members as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

Wheeler said Cameron's refusal to withdraw the comments, made in 2010, had
"absolutely enraged" the UKIP leader. "Nigel Farage consulted me and one or two
other people. He said, 'I really think I'm going to say that I'll never do a
deal with Cameron as the leader. What do you think?' And I said, well, [it's] a
difficult one, but I think that's okay. So that's what really did it."

The UKIP party leadership also distrusts Cameron personally because they believe
he reneged on a "cast-iron guarantee" made in opposition to offer a referendum
on the EU's Lisbon treaty. Wheeler, who made a fortune through a spread-betting
company and once gave the Conservatives £5m, quit the Tory party because of the
betrayal. However, he indicated he could be wooed back if Johnson became leader.
"I like Boris so much," he said.

A "non-aggression pact" between Tory candidates and UKIP has been backed by a
number of Conservative MPs.

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, said: "We should explore some kind of
electoral agreement."

Philip Davies, MP for Shipley, said he supported local pacts for Ukip not to
stand against Eurosceptic Tories. "Where Conservatives and UKIP have similar
views then it makes a great deal of sense," he said.

Peter Bone, Tory MP for Wellingborough, said the Tories should agree a "common
line" with UKIP. He wants an arrangement where Conservative candidates can carry
Tory and UKIP logos on the ballot paper. "The government passed legislation so
you could have two logos. Why not have a Conservative and UKIP logo?" he said.
"If UKIP wants to endorse me I could also have the UKIP logo."

Julian Lewis, Tory MP for New Forest East, warned that unless Cameron engaged in
"a little bit of political speed dating" with UKIP the Tories could see a huge
chunk of their support grabbed by Farage's party. UKIP said it had been
approached by 15-20 Tory constituency associations represented by Eurosceptic
MPs, asking Farage's party not to put up a candidate in 2015.

UKIP has refused to say whether it will agree to this. Farage has indicated
privately that he will consider such an approach, but it is likely that
Conservative candidates would want assurances from Cameron that they would not
be penalised for local deals.

Cameron also faces opposition over this week's Queen's Speech. MPs plan to rip
apart a bill which would allow voters to throw out sitting MPs. Critics fear it
would lead to witchhunts.

Tories demand early EU vote to spike UKIP guns, pages 6-7

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories demand early EU vote to spike UKIP guns;
The success of Nigel Farage's party in local elections has emboldened
Eurosceptic MPs to call for a quick referendum. Jack Grimston and Isabel
Oakeshott report

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1372 words


DAVID CAMERON faces a campaign from Eurosceptic MPs to hold a referendum on
Europe within the next year to head off the "insurgency" threat from UKIP.

Cameron has already promised a vote after the 2015 general election. But critics
argue that he needs to move earlier because his pledge failed to stem the surge
by Nigel Farage's party at last week's local elections. UKIP won 22% of the
popular vote and gained 139 council seats.

The proposed pre-election vote is designed to give the prime minister a popular
mandate to start talks on a looser relationship with Brussels. Supporters of the
plan, who say they are backed by 50-100 Tory MPs, argue it would persuade voters
that Cameron will not backtrack on his vow to repatriate powers from Brussels.

Bernard Jenkin, the MP for Harwich and North Essex, and one of the organisers,
said: "A number of us on the back benches have been quietly debating this
proposal with the prime minister's advisers, with the chancellor [George
Osborne] and with the prime minister himself ... and I believe a number in
cabinet have also been doing so."

Priti Patel, the MP for Witham, added: "I am up for it [a pre-election
referendum]. Bring it on. The public are sick of promises ... this is about
getting specific."

Other supporters include John Redwood, the MP for Wokingham and former cabinet
minister, who writes in today's Sunday Times "in this new climate parliament
could approve an immediate referendum".

The campaign for an early Europe vote comes amid soulsearching in the main
parties about how to respond to the election results.

An analysis by Michael Thrasher and Colin Rallings, election experts at Plymouth
University, found that for the first time since their records began in 1979, no
single party scored at least 30% of the national vote at a local election.

The professors' research suggests that if the results are repeated in 2015,
Labour will scrape to victory in the general election, with a majority of 12.
Many MPs expect another coalition, arguing that "four-party politics" will
become the norm.

Cameron, who had described UKIP party members as fruitcakes and closet racists,
acknowledged that it was time to stop the insults, saying: "We need to show
respect for people who have taken the choice to support this party. And we're
going to work really hard to win them back."

There was anger among some senior Tory figures about the contribution of Ken
Clarke, the Europhile cabinet minister, who last weekend dismissed UKIP as
clowns.

One MP reportedly said he had "outlived his usefulness" Lord Ashcroft, the Tory
peer, tweeted: "Congratulations to the 'clowns' and 'fruitcakes'!!! That
worked!!"

Farage, who was fishing for sea bass in the English Channel yesterday for an
evening barbecue after the elections, said after the results: "We've been abused
by everybody, attacked by the entire establishment, who did their best to stop
ordinary, decent people from going out and voting UKIP. The establishment has
been shocked and stunned."

Among Labour, the mood was cautiously optimistic, despite the party winning
fewer than 300 new council seats. The party's official target of at least
200-250 was deliberately modest, allowing spin doctors to claim they had
achieved their aim. Privately, most Labour MPs would have liked more than 300
gains. However, Ed Miliband's strategists are emphasising that the seats the
party did win were in the constituencies they need to seize for a majority in
2015.

They point out that the local elections did not take place in natural Labour
heartlands. About 80% of the areas where local elections took place elected a
Tory MP in 2010 - making last week's elections particularly difficult for
Miliband's party.

"Most of our key [target] seats didn't have elections but in almost two dozen
areas we are targeting for 2015, the local election results suggest we would
have won with ease," said one strategist.

Michael Dugher, vicechairman of the party, said: "It's not 'job done' but it
does show really good progress. Labour showed that we could win again, including
in the south of England and in the target marginal seats we need to take in
2015."

However, Thrasher and Rallings described Labour's performance as "patchy and in
some respects under-cooked".

They said: "Labour in opposition should have more of a cushion over the Tories,
two years out from a general election, to have a real prospect of winning an
overall majority."

The Liberal Democrats lost 124 councillors and came seventh in the South Shields
byelection, losing their deposit. Nick Clegg, the party leader and deputy prime
minister, said it was part of the Lib Dems' "journey" from being "a party of
protest to a party of government".

He said voters were attracted by UKIP's "simple answers" to the country's
"complex problems".

But it is the Tories that face the greatest threat to their electoral base from
UKIP. The Conservatives lost 335 councillors and the control of 10 councils.

Some Tories believe that UKIP tapped into popular anger at an apparently remote
and out-of-touch political elite.

Patel said: "There is a mood against the establishment; the anti-establishment
party has done well. I sense particularly from my experience of my own
constituents, they effectively feel that the main political parties - possibly
as a result of coalition - look the same, sound the same, sit in the middle,
live on the same street, went to the same school together."

David Davis, the former Tory leadership challenger, said yesterday the party had
to change the impression that it was "privileged and out of touch". He added:
"Please, please no more Old Etonian advisers," referring to Cameron's
appointment of Jo Johnson - brother of Boris, London's mayor - and Jesse Norman,
another backbencher, to his policy team. Davis is among those backing a
preelection referendum. Cameron and Theresa May, home secretary, hinted last
week that they would be open to making moves on Europe before 2015.

Options include passing legislation to promise a post-election referendum. This
is backed by about 100 backbenchers, led by John Baron, MP for Basildon and
Billericay.

Senior Tories who want Cameron to go further on Europe before 2015 include Boris
Johnson. A friend of the London mayor said: "He welcomes legislation pre-2015 so
we can move as soon as possible after the election. The PM should ram home the
point pre-2015 and Boris is confident he will."

Johnson would support a referendum within the next two years - but only in the
unlikely event that Cameron can complete his renegotiation by then. Jenkin,
Redwood and their allies believe that only a preelection referendum will dent
UKIP's advance.

David Ruffley, MP for Bury St Edmunds, said: "The UKIP insurgency has taken the
leadership by surprise. We need toughen up our position on Europe ... and I
think we will need to seriously talk about having a referendum before the Euro
elections next year."

In theory, a referendum law could be passed before the end of this year,
allowing a vote to be held next summer. This could include a list of specific
areas where Cameron would try to return powers from the EU to Britain.

Downing Street officials are worried that Clegg would block the bill, seeing it
as a matter of internal Tory management rather than a national priority.

Some in Downing Street also fear that holding a vote before the election would
lose the Tories a key electoral advantage - they are the only one of the three
big parties supporting a referendum.

Supporters of the plan believe this would be countered by the prospect of large
numbers of UKIP voters returning to the Tory fold.

The Tory high command was keen this weekend to play down the prospect of any
hurried reaction to UKIP. One source said there would be "no lurch to the
right". William Hague, the foreign secretary, writes in a national newspaper
today that, while the Tories must understand the grievances of voters, the party
must "beware of falling into the trap of lowest common denominator politics".

He adds in an article for The Sunday Telegraph: "To offer short cuts that will
not work would be to cheat the British people, offering them a dead end - and
frankly it is patronising them too."

The rise and fall of the political class, Editorial, page 22

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anthony Seldon examines the elite surrounding Cameron in News Review
The success of Nigel Farage and UKIP in the council elections has left the Tory
leadership scrambling to react

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A cry from the heartland

BYLINE: John Redwood

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 287 words


The ancien régime of the European Union is far from popular. Today we see the
full extent of the UK electors' cri de coeur over its calumnies, writes John
Redwood.

Voters are fed up with the UK having too little control over its own borders,
annoyed that we have to pay benefits according to the whims of the European
Court of Justice, angry that we cannot expel whom we wish, livid at the EU's
costly energy policy and frustrated at the ever growing burden of regulation
that hits motorists, small businesses, savers and many others.

Some in the mainstream media and parties take comfort from phrases such as "it
is a protest vote", it "wasn't mainly about Europe" and "it's what you expect
mid-term". They would be wise to think again.

The first mainstream party to grasp the significance of this mood and to offer a
solution to the complex web of issues that has upset so many people will do the
nation a service and make itself more likely to win the 2015 election.

David Cameron has come the closest to understanding it. For the first time since
1975 a prime minister has said we will need a referendum giving people the
chance to vote to leave the EU if the new relationship secured is not to their
liking. Welcome though this is, it does not go far enough.

In this new climate parliament could approve an immediate referendum on the
issue of whether the government should go to Brussels and negotiate a much
looser relationship where we are not governed by Europe.

I would support a bill which allowed us to ask the public: "Do you want the UK
government to negotiate a new relationship with the EU based on free trade and
political co-operation?" John Redwood is MP for Wokingham. See full article at
johnredwoodsdiary.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

UKIP: We would do deal with Boris

BYLINE: Camilla Long, Isabel Oakeshott ; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 758 words


THE UKIP treasurer says its leadership would rather deal with Boris Johnson than
with David Cameron in the run-up to the next election.

Stuart Wheeler, the multimillionaire former Tory donor, said it was "much more
likely" that his party could work with the mayor of London than the prime
minister on a potential pact in certain constituencies in the 2015 general
election.

Nigel Farage's party does not trust Cameron to deliver a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU and believes Johnson is a truer Eurosceptic.

"If Boris Johnson's policies were acceptable, which I think on the whole they
would be, I would be happy to do that [a deal]," Wheeler said. He suggested that
if Johnson became Tory leader, there would be significant potential for talks
between the two parties. UKIP insiders indicated last night that Farage shared
Wheeler's view.

Cameron is under pressure from his backbenchers to prevent UKIP gaining more
momentum after its success in last week's council elections. It gained 139
council seats.

While the Tories' loss of 335 seats was not as many as some had feared, MPs in
marginal seats are alarmed by the number of votes they are losing to UKIP. There
is speculation that the party could even be close to securing its only MP.
Nadine Dorries, who was suspended from the Tory party last year for taking time
off from parliament to appear in the reality TV show I'm a Celebrity, has
refused to rule out switching allegiance.

Some MPs believe Cameron should try to neutralise the threat posed by UKIP in
marginal seats by forging a "nonaggression pact" with Farage at local or even
national level. Under such a deal, UKIP would agree not to field candidates for
certain seats, where the Tory candidate pledged to support Continued on page 2 W
W

Tory right backs UKIP pact believe he reneged on a "cast-iron guarantee" made in
opposition to offer a referendum on the EU's Lisbon treaty. Wheeler, who made a
fortune through a spread-betting company and once gave the Conservatives £5m,
quit the Tory party because of the betrayal. However, he indicated he could be
wooed back if Johnson became leader. "I like Boris so much," he said.

A "non-aggression pact" between Tory candidates and UKIP has been backed by a
number of Conservative MPs.

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, said: "We should explore some kind of
electoral agreement."

Philip Davies, MP for Shipley, said he supported local pacts for Ukip not to
stand against Eurosceptic Tories. "Where Conservatives and UKIP have similar
views then it makes a great deal of sense," he said.

Peter Bone, Tory MP for Wellingborough, said the Tories should agree a "common
line" with UKIP. He wants an arrangement where Conservative candidates can carry
Tory and UKIP logos on the ballot paper. "The government passed legislation so
you could have two logos. Why not have a Conservative and UKIP logo?" he said.
"If UKIP wants to endorse me I could also have the UKIP logo."

Julian Lewis, Tory MP for New Forest East, warned that unless Cameron engaged in
"a little bit of political speed dating" with UKIP the Tories could see a huge
chunk of their support grabbed by Farage's party. UKIP said it had been
approached by 15-20 Tory constituency associations represented by Eurosceptic
MPs, asking Farage's party not to put up a candidate in 2015.

UKIP has refused to say whether it will agree to this. Farage has indicated
privately that he will consider such an approach, but it is likely that
Conservative candidates would want assurances from Cameron that they would not
be penalised for local deals.

Cameron also faces opposition over this week's Queen's Speech. MPs plan to rip
apart a bill which would allow voters to throw out sitting MPs. Critics fear it
would lead to witchhunts.

Tories demand early EU vote to spike UKIP guns, pages 6-7 W W Continued from
page 1 UKIP's Eurosceptic agenda. Wheeler said, in an interview with The Sunday
Times, that Farage had ruled out any deal with Cameron because of the prime
minister's description of UKIP members as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists".

Wheeler said Cameron's refusal to withdraw the comments, made in 2010, had
"absolutely enraged" the UKIP leader. "Nigel Farage consulted me and one or two
other people. He said, 'I really think I'm going to say that I'll never do a
deal with Cameron as the leader. What do you think?' And I said, well, [it's] a
difficult one, but I think that's okay. So that's what really did it."

The UKIP party leadership also distrusts Cameron personally because they

Tory right backs UKIP pact [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UKIP: We would do deal with Boris

BYLINE: Camilla Long, Isabel Oakeshott ; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 759 words


THE UKIP treasurer says its leadership would rather deal with Boris Johnson than
with David Cameron in the run-up to the next election.

Stuart Wheeler, the multimillionaire former Tory donor, said it was "much more
likely" that his party could work with the mayor of London than the prime
minister on a potential pact in certain constituencies in the 2015 general
election.

Nigel Farage's party does not trust Cameron to deliver a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU and believes Johnson is a truer Eurosceptic.

"If Boris Johnson's policies were acceptable, which I think on the whole they
would be, I would be happy to do that [a deal]," Wheeler said. He suggested that
if Johnson became Tory leader, there would be significant potential for talks
between the two parties. UKIP insiders indicated last night that Farage shared
Wheeler's view.

Cameron is under pressure from his backbenchers to prevent UKIP gaining more
momentum after its success in last week's council elections. It gained 139
council seats.

While the Tories' loss of 335 seats was not as many as some had feared, MPs in
marginal seats are alarmed by the number of votes they are losing to UKIP. There
is speculation that the party could even be close to securing its only MP.
Nadine Dorries, who was suspended from the Tory party last year for taking time
off from parliament to appear in the reality TV show I'm a Celebrity, has
refused to rule out switching allegiance.

Some MPs believe Cameron should try to neutralise the threat posed by UKIP in
marginal seats by forging a "nonaggression pact" with Farage at local or even
national level. Under such a deal, UKIP would agree not to field candidates for
certain seats, where the Tory candidate pledged to support Continued on page 2 ?
? W W

Tory right backs UKIP pact believe he reneged on a "cast-iron guarantee" made in
opposition to offer a referendum on the EU's Lisbon treaty. Wheeler, who made a
fortune through a spread-betting company and once gave the Conservatives £5m,
quit the Tory party because of the betrayal. However, he indicated he could be
wooed back if Johnson became leader. "I like Boris so much," he said.

A "non-aggression pact" between Tory candidates and UKIP has been backed by a
number of Conservative MPs.

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, said: "We should explore some kind of
electoral agreement."

Philip Davies, MP for Shipley, said he supported local pacts for Ukip not to
stand against Eurosceptic Tories. "Where Conservatives and UKIP have similar
views then it makes a great deal of sense," he said.

Peter Bone, Tory MP for Wellingborough, said the Tories should agree a "common
line" with UKIP. He wants an arrangement where Conservative candidates can carry
Tory and UKIP logos on the ballot paper. "The government passed legislation so
you could have two logos. Why not have a Conservative and UKIP logo?" he said.
"If UKIP wants to endorse me I could also have the UKIP logo."

Julian Lewis, Tory MP for New Forest East, warned that unless Cameron engaged in
"a little bit of political speed dating" with UKIP the Tories could see a huge
chunk of their support grabbed by Farage's party. UKIP said it had been
approached by 15-20 Tory constituency associations represented by Eurosceptic
MPs, asking Farage's party not to put up a candidate in 2015.

UKIP has refused to say whether it will agree to this. Farage has indicated
privately that he will consider such an approach, but it is likely that
Conservative candidates would want assurances from Cameron that they would not
be penalised for local deals.

Cameron also faces opposition over this week's Queen's Speech. MPs plan to rip
apart a bill which would allow voters to throw out sitting MPs. Critics fear it
would lead to witchhunts.

Tories demand early EU vote to spike UKIP guns, pages 6-7 ? ? Continued from
page 1 UKIP's Eurosceptic agenda. Wheeler said, in an interview with The Sunday
Times, that Farage had ruled out any deal with Cameron because of the prime
minister's description of UKIP members as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists".

Wheeler said Cameron's refusal to withdraw the comments, made in 2010, had
"absolutely enraged" the UKIP leader. "Nigel Farage consulted me and one or two
other people. He said, 'I really think I'm going to say that I'll never do a
deal with Cameron as the leader. What do you think?' And I said, well, [it's] a
difficult one, but I think that's okay. So that's what really did it."

The UKIP party leadership also distrusts Cameron personally because they

Tory right backs UKIP pact [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

THE RISE AND FALL OF THE POLITICAL CLASS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 759 words


Nothing better sums up the triumph of the UK Independence party in Thursday's
local elections than the abrupt shift in tone by the mainstream parties to it
and its supporters. UKIP, once memorably dismissed by David Cameron as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists", and by the Tories' Europhile grandee
Ken Clarke as "clowns" just a few days ago, now has to be treated with respect
for fear of offending the average 25% of voters who backed it.

So for Mr Cameron now: "It is no good insulting a political party that people
have chosen to vote for. We need to show respect for people who have taken the
choice to support this party and we are going to work really hard to win them
back."

Mr Clarke will be kept firmly in his box and the Tories, as far as the
constraints of coalition allow, will toughen up its policies on immigration and
explore the possibility of legislating for an in-out referendum on the European
Union to head off an even bigger triumph for UKIP in next year's European
parliament elections where the smart money is now on the party coming first.
Labour, for its part, will seek to respond to the concerns of workingclass
voters on immigration and the justifiable perception that it is a hopelessly
soft touch on welfare.

If the mainstream parties believe that any of this will be enough to dent UKIP's
appeal they are sadly deluded. UKIP is part of a bigger trend, reflected in the
rise of the Tea Party in America, the True Finns in Finland, Golden Dawn and
Syriza in Greece, the Danish People's party, Beppe Grillo's Five Star Movement
in Italy and new parties in Holland, Switzerland and Austria. People are either
fed up with austerity or are bruised by forces outside their control, whether
these are the power of Brussels or the consequences of globalisation, including
immigration.

In all this they do not just feel badly served by the mainstream parties, they
also feel insulted by them. Inside the Westminster village the political game is
being played but to empty stadiums. In a radio interview last week Ed Miliband
failed to convince even as a very good policy wonk, let alone a good party
leader, and the Tories and Liberal Democrats rubbed their hands in glee.

Out there is the real world, however, little of this matters. Labour is a
discredited brand but so are the Tories and Lib Dems. Inverted snobbery is a
vice, but at a time when Mr Cameron and George Osborne needed to get away from
the "two posh boys" tag, the mind boggles at the calculation that led the prime
minister to decide to do an impression of Lord Snooty and his pals: yet more Old
Etonians have been invited to join the chum-ocracy of No 10.

The bigger issue is about the kind of politics and politicians that we want. An
anti-politics none-of-the-above vote can, by its nature, only be temporary. The
closer the antipoliticians get to power, the more they evolve into politicians.
By putting UKIP policies under greater scrutiny its rivals will hope to make the
party's shortcomings look at least as big as their own.

What they cannot do is change the fact that Mr Cameron, Mr Miliband and Nick
Clegg are cut from the same cloth, as are the vast majority of our leading
politicians. The route into career politics is now as mapped out as any graduate
entry programme: party researcher, special adviser, MP, minister. The only
character-building that happens during this process is to build characters
insulated from real-world experience. Life in the political salons gives you
little or no insight into what is on people's minds in the nation's living
rooms.

That is why Nigel Farage is different. Research by YouGov, the Sunday Times
pollster, found the UKIP leader is regarded by voters as "a genuine person with
genuine opinions" who "speaks his mind" and "knows what the country wants". The
man dismissed as an anachronistic golf club bore by the Westminster
sophisticates is liked because he is a character. The voters, rightly or
wrongly, think he has principles - and sticks to them.

Whatever they do in the next two years, none of the three main party leaders
seems able to woo support beyond his tribe. The only politician who can come
close to doing so is Boris Johnson, who has overcome the political disadvantages
of his Eton education and has the populism, character and instinctive
Euroscepticism that appeal to voters. Many Tory MPs, as they survey their 2015
re-election prospects in the wake of Thursday's results, may come round to this
view. UKIP's triumph means the politics of the next two years will be very
interesting indeed.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

They're all now making plans for Nigel

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1068 words


Sometimes it can be perilous to wear a suit and tie in a public place. There I
was, standing on the edge of the small crowd surrounding Ed Miliband in Crawley
town centre, when an angry elderly lady in a leather jacket came up to me and
demanded: "What are you going to do about immigration?" Fortunately, the Labour
leader has taken to running his campaign stumps Jerry Springer-style, so I
pointed my questioner in his direction and they were soon locked in animated
conversation.

This happened before the votes were counted. Now that UKIP has brought
four-party politics to England at the expense of Labour, the Liberal Democrats
and the Conservatives, all three mainstream parties must decide how they counter
the insurgents - do they pander to them or oppose? It was clear from the Labour
leader's sortie into West Sussex that populism can bring its own dangers as
surely as sporting office attire. Miliband's sympathetic promise that Labour
would restrict housing access for recent migrants failed to satisfy his
audience, and was met by a sour heckle from the back of the crowd: "At least
they get houses." Other questions from shoppers who paused to listen raised Abu
Qatada, welfare and the NHS.

For all Miliband's genuine desire to connect with the public, I had to wonder if
this proud son of immigrants was really comfortable with this kind of
conversation. He assured me that he enjoyed talking to the "unpersuaded, even
the unpersuadable", but if he can't convert them to his cause, was this the best
use of his campaigning day? UKIP has indeed sent a "shockwave" through
establishment politics, as Nigel Farage is boasting. The foundations will
continue to tremble at least until the European elections in May next year.
Conventional wisdom is now that UKIP will top their second place last time in
this proportional representation election for a parliament about which we care
little.

Second place in the votes actually cast in the English shires this election, and
a projected third place ahead of the Lib Dems in national equivalent vote share,
clearly parks the UKIP tanks on the political map. Even if it isn't winning a
big number of seats in first-past-the-post elections (UKIP got 6% of the seats
and 25% of the votes in these elections), England's new insurgent party is
disrupting the electoral calculations of the main parties.

For example, at mid-term in these austere times, the Labour opposition would
normally have hoped for a healthy notional overall majority at the expense of
both unpopular coalition partners, rather than the fragile majority of about 12
Westminster seats that the experts have projected from last week's results.

Labour made only a halting recovery from its worst local election performance,
in 2009, not even beating the 29% share that lost Gordon Brown the premiership
in 2010.

The Lib Dems have yet again found out that the transformation from party of
protest to party of power has cost them votes. Disenchanted voters used to turn
away from the Tories and Labour; now they've given up on the coalition junior
partners as well.

These elections may have brought some private consolation to Nick Clegg - his
party performed a bit better in those areas where MPs and councillors are dug
in, including his home base of Sheffield. If the split in the right-of-centre
vote between Tories and UKIP holds, there is a real prospect that the Lib Dems
could hang on to most of their current MPs in 2015, while still shedding votes
by the ballot-box-load.

For now the Lib Dem leadership advocates hugging tight to the coalition,
suppressing Europhile convictions and talking almost as tough as the Tories on
immigration, welfare and the economy. But there must be a temptation to dump
their deputy prime minister some time from late 2014 onwards, in the immediate
run-up to the general election.

UKIP's surge damages the Tories most. But party leaders also claim it gives them
the best chance of salvation, because Farage has borrowed more votes from
Cameron than from Clegg or Miliband.

According to the Tories' private polling, there is a resounding "No!" to the
question, "Would you still vote UKIP if you let in a Labour or Liberal Democrat
MP?" This, and the rather blunter truth that it's only by returning a Tory
government that you'll get an EU referendum, may be enough to scare back some
disgruntled Tory voters.

Those who believe that UKIP's policy offer is now more truly blue than David
Cameron's won't be lured back so easily. To reach them, the PM is trying to
shift the Conservative platform rightwards, a difficult task if he is to
maintain his vital appeal to the centre ground.

On Wednesday the Queen's speech will include an immigration bill, curtailing the
access of recent arrivals to UK rights such as the NHS, along the lines of the
speech Cameron delivered in Ipswich at the end of March. Significantly, the Lib
Dem leadership plans to support this measure.

A drift to the right was already well under way in the run-up to the council
polls, with talk of tougher prison conditions, benefit clampdowns and even the
end of foreign aid to South Africa. The promise of an in-out EU referendum is
the purple coulis on the soufflé.

Cameron has not paused to reflect that none of these nudges stopped the surge in
support for UKIP. A synthetic row over non-binding preparatory legislation for
the referendum isn't likely do the trick.

The PM will be lucky to appease his critics on the right, such as the No Turning
Back group of MPs and the former Thatcherite peers Norman Tebbit and Tim Bell.
What they really want is the break-up of the coalition, the abandonment of
same-sex marriage and a commitment to pull out of the EU - precisely the reverse
takeover of the Conservative party that Farage dreams of.

If you go back a generation, before sterling's ejection from the ERM in 1992,
all three main parties were enthusiastic supporters of Europe and of freedom of
movement within its borders. Not even the Lib Dems speak up for greater EU
integration now.

There are many reasons for this gradual change in the political mood - among
them a sense that politicians were failing to listen to the public. Cameron,
Miliband and Clegg should be careful not to overcompensate, since the best UKIP
has done so far is a good second place.

UKIP has staked out its territory and it won't be dislodged easily. Who is the
joke on? And who are the pretenders now? @adamboultonsky

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Why we shouldn't expect the sympathy vote from Germany

BYLINE: MATT COOPER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1142 words


Despite what you've heard in recent days, don't get carried away with the notion
that the age of austerity is coming to an end. If we've learnt anything in the
past five years it is that every time our hopes are raised, sooner or later they
will be dashed.

Distaste for what is termed "austerity" is apparent throughout Europe, and not
just in Ireland where the public-sector trade unions struck a blow against it
recently by voting against further pay reductions for their members.

What is new, however, is criticism of austerity being voiced by powerful figures
who believe enough is enough. The penny has dropped: continued cutting of
government budgets throughout the EU is not working as intended. Jobs are not
being created; economic growth is not returning.

There is now a frightening number of people out of work across Europe. If we
think our unemployment rate of more than 14% is bad (which it is, especially as
it is reduced by emigration), the situation in countries such as Spain is
catastrophic. People without a job are a burden in terms of social welfare, do
not pay income tax, and do not have the same ability to spend and boost the
economy.

Of course, the economic perspective doesn't take into account the human misery
many unemployed people are enduring as their standards of living fall. Even
those who still have jobs are having more of their incomes taken by the
government, while the services they receive in return are being cut back. All
this misery has been ladled out by politicians and administrators who have been
slavishly implementing policies they believe will benefit everyone in the long
term. It is the economic equivalent of leeching. The medicine has been
administered consistently, but the patients are not getting better.

It is noteworthy that two of the three lenders to Ireland who make up the
bailout troika are among those who want to change the medicine, or at least the
dosages. We know the International Monetary Fund is concerned that endless
increases in tax coupled with cuts to government spending are failing to
stimulate the economic recovery that is supposed to come from smaller government
deficits. But last week Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president,
conceded "austerity is near its political limit" and said greater emphasis
should be placed on growth stimulation.

"A policy to be successful not only has to be properly designed, it has to have
a minimum of political and social support," he said. Good news, on the face of
it, but Barroso also prefaced his remarks by stating: "I think [austerity] is
fundamentally right." And in a pointed reference to Ireland, he said: "It is a
painful programme, but it is working."

Well, it is certainly reducing the government's deficit, which fell to 7.4% of
GDP last year, but that's about it. The economy is back in recession, although
nobody talks about that. More deficit reduction is demanded for coming years,
meaning more taxes and fewer services. The government is committed to reducing
the deficit to 3% by 2015, and pushed through a referendum committing us,
constitutionally, not to breach this budget target. Nobody else in Europe was
stupid enough to put such a provision into their constitutions.

Our fate now lies largely in Germany's hands, and this is not encouraging.
Chancellor Angela Merkel, who faces a general election in five months, doesn't
even want us to use the term "austerity" any more. "I call it balancing the
budget," she said last week. "Everyone else is using this term 'austerity'. That
makes it sound like something truly evil." She prefers the term "growth-friendly
consolidation".

Her foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, has criticised Barroso's comments. "We
are convinced that if we give up on budget consolidation in Europe and return to
the old approach of more and more debt, then we would cement mass unemployment
over a period of many years," he said. Welcome to our world, Guido.

The Germans are also playing with statistics.

They have made much of figures released on Monday by Eurostat showing government
debt in the eurozone rose to 90.6% of GDP last year from 87.3% the year before.
That is expansion of debt, not austerity, as far as the Germans are concerned.
Of course, treating the eurozone as a single group ignores the reality of the
larger deficits in Greece, Spain, Italy and Ireland and the inability of France
and the Netherlands to bring their annual deficits below 3% of GDP by 2015 as
promised. Ireland's overall debt position would be transformed if we could get a
refund of the money "invested" by the state into the bust banks at the
insistence of the European Central Bank and Germany. This would bring our
overall debt-to-GDP levels below both the EU average and that of Germany. It
would also reduce our interest repayments, allowing us to reach the annual 3%
limit without having to resort to further tax increases and cost-cutting.

Merkel wobbled last June at an EU summit when she left open the possibility that
a new EU rescue fund for banks could be applied retrospectively. Ireland seized
on that as a done deal - or at least Eamon Gilmore did, calling it a
"game-changer". Merkel faced furious domestic opposition to the idea of
retrospectively bailing out Ireland, or anyone else, and reneged. So we must
continue a policy of austerity that isn't working.

That explains why Michael Noonan, the finance minister, was so cautious last
week. He might have some extra cash available for "stimulus" but it will be
(EURO)1bn at most. All it means is that the adjustment in the next budget could
be (EURO)2.1bn instead of (EURO)3.1bn. More pain for little or no gain, beyond
book balancing.

Germany does not seem disposed to helping Ireland. The Germans have no sympathy
for our public servants, not when their own are paid substantially less. As far
as the Germans are concerned we continue to borrow more than (EURO)1bn a month
to fund this overspending. Their view is that we don't deserve to be let off the
hook. And if you think that is unfair, consider that many Irish people are
opposed to debt forgiveness for neighbours who overborrowed to buy homes during
the boom.

We don't exactly help ourselves, though. How can we complain about austerity
when our government sits on its hands as Bank of Ireland - which lost (EURO)2bn
last year - votes through a pay deal of (EURO)840,000 for Richie Boucher, its
chief executive, even though the state owns 15% of the business? How can we
complain when we continue to pay pensions of about (EURO)150,000 a year to the
likes of Bertie Ahern, Brian Cowen and John Bruton even though none of them have
reached retirement age? It is difficult to complain about austerity and ask the
EU for debt forgiveness when we fail to address such anomalies.

matt.cooper@sunday-times.ie

'THE ECONOMY IS BACK IN RECESSION, ALTHOUGH NOBODY TALKS ABOUT THAT'

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Labour terminates its principles to avoid taking abortion stand

BYLINE: JUSTINE McCARTHY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 945 words


Ihad the privilege last year of touring the National Maternity Hospital in
Holles Street. I was writing about the creaking infrastructure of the maternity
services in Ireland, which has the EU's highest birth rate, some of its most
decrepit buildings, and insufficient resources.

Peter Boylan, a former master at Holles Street, brought me to the intensive care
unit, a hushed sanctuary of winking technology and tiny babies struggling to
stay alive. At one incubator, Boylan peered at the patient card. "She's 23 weeks
and 680g," he said, "and she could grow up to be the taoiseach." Even at an
advanced stage in his career, he had lost none of his wonder at the magic of
blossoming human life.

If you visit the websites of Youth Defence and the Life Institute, you may be
tempted to presume they speak of a different Peter Boylan. In demonising
vernacular, they accuse him of supporting abortion legislation, as if it were
his shameful secret. The fact is, he belonged to the government's expert group
that recommended legislation following a ruling from the European Court of Human
Rights.

The anti-abortion lobby has criticised the Galway coroner's invitation to Boylan
to testify at the inquest into the death last year of Savita Halappanavar
following a miscarriage at 17 weeks. Boylan told the inquest that, had a
termination been done on Monday, October 22, Savita would probably still be
alive but this could not be done because it was against the law. The Life
Institute says an obstetrician "neutral" on the abortion issue should have
testified. Show me an obstetrician indifferent to Ireland's abortion law and
I'll show you an obstetrician who doesn't care about his patients.

In the Seanad, Rónán Mullen complains the anti-abortion lobby is not being
listened to. This is more of the same denial of reality that landed us with
Article 40.3.3 of the constitution in the first place.

Last Sunday, Breda O'Brien, a prominent anti-abortion advocate, provided a
demonstration on Marian Finucane's RTE Radio show of the reasons why some
elements of the antiabortion lobby should not be given the disproportionate
media platform they get, imbuing often disingenuous arguments with undeserved
credibility. She claimed Savita Halappanavar had been "fully dilated" when
admitted to Galway University Hospital on Sunday, October 21, despite repeated
evidence at the inquest that she was dilated just 2cm of what Bonnar had said.
He had been on Prime Time with Bonnar, he said, and had challenged him about the
timing of intervention.

Again, Boylan was correct. What Bonnar said was: "We should have started the
antibiotic and then terminated, and that should have been done by Tuesday." To
which Boylan responded: "John, come on."

Later in the programme, though, Bonnar said something more significant. Claire
Byrne, the Prime Time presenter, asked Boylan: "The woman should have a say in
her care?" "Yes, absolutely," he replied. "I agree with that," said Bonnar.

Yet the government is planning to publish a bill that will copperfasten the
legal prohibition on a pregnant female's wishes being considered.

If she reasonably fears she will develop a swift and fatal infection, her wishes
will be disregarded. If her foetus has virtually no hope of independent
survival, her wishes will be disregarded. If she was raped, her wishes will be
disregarded, even if she is 12 or was left to die in some back alley.

Anthony McCarthy, a perinatal psychiatrist, described as "abusive" a Fine Gael
draft proposal that six doctors would certify a woman's suicidal ideation before
she be allowed an abortion. Whatever eligibility process is ultimately
formulated, the law being planned constitutes a fundamental breach of women's
rights.

The ructions within Fine Gael give no hint of this. A passionately anti-abortion
rump in the party objects to the inclusion of suicidal ideation as grounds for
abortion. The suicide condition has been law for 21 years and its abolition was
twice rejected by the people in referendums.

Clearly, some members of Fine Gael's parliamentary party simply do not want the
X judgment enacted.

What is confounding is that their government colleagues in the Labour party are
not demanding the legislation go beyond X's narrow confines. As the people are
not being allowed a referendum to abolish Article 40.3.3, then X, restricted as
it is to the circumstances of a single case, should not be the legislative
prototype. Politicians should do what they have not had the backbone to do for
the past 30 years: pass legislation that deals with all eventualities.

Labour's stated policy is that abortion be permitted in cases of lethal foetal
abnormality and where there is a risk of "significant injury to the physical
health of the mother". What they are settling for falls below a standard
espoused by someone as "deeply conservative" as Bonnar.

Labour's surrender of core beliefs smacks of political pragmatism. They
privately applaud Boylan's courage and wait for the next girl or woman with a
crisis pregnancy to seek the courts' protection and spark another debate, but
they are not prepared to risk their own Dail seats after 30 years of a
legislative vacuum.

On October 22 last year, Savita Halappanavar was a healthy young woman but her
foetus was 90% likely to die soon. Yet the constitution regarded them as equal
beings. The new law will not change that. To those of us watching with sinking
hearts, Labour's expediency is more troubling than Fine Gael's voluble
soul-searching. Is only one party in government willing to be guided by its
conscience? justine.mccarthy@sunday-times.ie

'POLITICIANS SHOULD DO WHAT THEY HAVE NOT HAD THE BACKBONE TO DO FOR 30 YEARS'

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

RIGHT, BRITAIN, THE CLEAN-UP STARTS HERE WELCOME TO LAND;
If you want to see UKIP's ideas in action, take a look at Ramsey, the only town
in Britain run by the party, write Francesca Angelini and Mark Hookham WELCOME
TO UKIP LAND

BYLINE: Francesca Angelini; Mark Hookham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1449 words


Every evening just after 6pm, once he has finished work, Councillor Peter Reeve
stops by at his local public conveniences. First, knocking on the doors of the
four cubicles to make sure they are empty, he sets to with mop and bucket to
give them a thorough scrubbing.

It is not the only extracurricular work carried out by Reeve, 36, as part of his
drive to save council funds in Ramsey, a Cambridgeshire market town of 6,000
people.

A member of the town, district and county councils, he also collects litter,
spruces up cemeteries, sweeps up dog dirt, grits hard-to-reach lanes in icy
weather and helps out the police when there is trouble.

Nor is there any escape from council business for Reeve when he gets home. His
wife, Lisa Duffy, is Ramsey's mayor, and his mother, Shirley, sits on the town
council.

Welcome to local politics - UKIP-style. This formerly rocksolid Conservative
town has turned into a test-bed for a party making the transition from a
single-issue group fixated on opposition to Brussels into a fourth force in
British politics.

Since 2011, when Reeve, his wife and his mother, plus their six allies, won a
majority of the 17 seats on the town council, this has been the only local
authority in Britain controlled by UKIP. Until now, that is. In the council
elections on Thursday, when seats are being contested in 34 English local
authorities (all but seven of which are county councils) as well as Anglesey in
north Wales, the party is fielding 1,745 candidates - just 18 fewer than the
Liberal Democrats.

The party, which is at level pegging with the Lib Dems on 11% in this weekend's
YouGov poll, looks set to take 40-50 seats - a considerable improvement on the
handful it won when the same seats were contested in 2009.

Although this is a fraction of the total seats being fought, the party is
expected to take away a number of votes from the Conservatives, who are forecast
to lose about 310 seats.

Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader, said Ramsey, with its bigsociety-on-steroids
approach, is the perfect example of what a UKIP-controlled Britain would look
like.

"Local budgets can't pay for everything so if we want to improve our community,
we roll our sleeves up and do it ourselves," said Farage.

"It's just astonishing - the people of the town love it."

THE party has been in existence for 20 years and won 13 seats - and second place
- in the 2009 European elections, which were fought on proportional
representation. But its successes in domestic elections have been limited.

This is due, in part, to the first-past-the-post electoral system that penalises
small parties. UKIP won 3% of the vote during the last general election and
Farage's attempt to oust John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, from Buckingham ended
in humiliation when he was beaten into third place.

Over the past three years, however, UKIP has begun hitting double figures in the
polls, buoyed by voter antipathy to the mainstream parties. Last November its
candidate took 21.7% of the vote and second place behind Labour in the Rotherham
by-election.

In February UKIP scored 27.8% of the vote - and second place - in Eastleigh,
behind the Lib Dems. Many believed that if the campaign had lasted another week
Diane James, its candidate, might have won.

The party's prospects have been boosted by the charisma - and formidable
political skills - of its leader.

A pint of beer in one hand and Rothmans in the other, Farage, 49, has positioned
himself as an outsider fighting not just the European Union but also the
Westminster establishment.

The former commodities trader knows how to work a crowd, too - as he showed last
week at a dinner for journalists.

In a reference to his wife Kirsten Mehr, a former bond broker from Hamburg, he
quipped: "I know what it's like to live in a German-dominated household!" In
typically bullish form, he also revelled in describing how a French presidential
candidate had taken him to a lap-dancing club in Strasbourg - and he had enjoyed
it.

This weekend he brushed off suggestions that traditional Conservative voters in
the shires would be shocked by such behaviour. "I hadn't noticed Mrs Thatcher
avoiding Peter Stringfellow," he said.

"She might not have approved particularly herself of such things, but she
recognised the fact that Peter Stringfellow ran a legal business and ran it well
and he was almost one of her champions because he was an entrepreneur."

He has nothing in common with the Lib Dems politically, but they are proving to
be Farage's inspiration.

In the past few years he has followed the example of Paddy Ashdown, who as
leader of that party in the 1990s concentrated on building up council seats as a
staging post for success on a national level.

"If we are going to win seats in Westminster we have to succeed at district and
county council level and build up clusters, hotspots of support in exactly the
same way that Ashdown took the Lib Dems from being tiny in the Commons to having
a serious representation," said Farage.

While the Lib Dems concentrated their support in Cornwall, Devon and Somerset in
the southwest, UKIP is attempting to build up its base in Cambridgeshire,
Lincolnshire and Essex.

This presents David Cameron with a dilemma. The prime minister's attempt in
January to spike Farage's guns by offering voters a referendum on EU membership
in 2017 if he wins the next election does not appear to have stemmed the party's
rise.

A STRONG showing by UKIP on Thursday will add to Cameron's woes especially if,
as some analysts predict, the party goes on to win next year's elections to the
European parliament.

Nevertheless, Conservative sources insist Cameron will avoid the temptation of
tacking to the right - citing his appointment last week of Boris Johnson's
younger brother Jo - a pro-European moderniser - as his policy chief.

Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, the pollster, said Cameron has no need to
panic: he does not expect UKIP to win a single seat in the 2015 general election
because he thinks traditional Tory voters will return to the fold out of fear
that a vote for UKIP risks handing victory to Labour.

"The Tories will be saying: don't even think about voting UKIP because a vote
for UKIP is a vote for that dangerous left-wing Europhile Ed Miliband to become
prime minister," said Kellner.

Farage's other challenge is the increasing scrutiny of his party's candidates
after revelations that several of them have eccentric views or links with
far-right groups: what Kellner calls "the plonker problem".

Farage admitted last week that UKIP could not vet all its council candidates,
adding: "While from time to time we may attract the odd fruitcake, the odd
loony, the odd nutcase, doesn't every voluntary organisation?" He made his
comments after it emerged that Susan Bowen, due to stand in Cornwall, had been
thrown out of UKIP because she was a former British National party member.

Yesterday Chris Scotton, 24, a UKIP candidate in Leicestershire, was suspended
over his alleged involvement with the far-right English Defence League (EDL).
Scotton's Facebook profile shows he has "liked" eight separate EDL Facebook
pages, along with a page entitled: "RacismNaa Mate its just ethnic banter"
[sic].

While making for embarrassing newspaper headlines, such considerations do not
appear to be denting the party's popularity on the ground.

In Ramsey, Reeve is confident of holding his county council seat, one of those
being contested on Thursday, and even of improving on the 43% of the vote with
which he won it in 2009.

UKIP banners are on display in the windows of many of the houses. Then there is
the garish purple UKIP minibus trundling up the high street every hour,
emblazoned with the slogans "Here comes common sense" and "Out of EU".

Set up to "fill in the gaps left by the county council cuts to bus services", it
ferries residents about for free. Non-UKIP members are welcome.

"They speak to the people here in Ramsey and they're talking sense with their
immigration policies," said Geoff Cannon, 58, who runs Sticky Fingers, a sweet
shop. "We don't want to be run by Brussels.

I've never voted for UKIP before but I would now."

Such views are music to Reeve's ears. "At first we picked up the protest vote
and votes from dissatisfied Conservatives.

Now support is coming from right across the spectrum, from all classes and
cultures," he said.

"We're getting old Labour votes, the white van man who supported Thatcher and
created her revolution and we're increasingly winning over the high-Tory vote,
the shooting brigade who you would never have dreamt would vote UKIP."

Thursday's results will tell if he is right.

Additional reporting: Dipesh Gadher. A quick beating, then Tories are back in
game, Adam Boulton, page 23

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP councillor Peter Reeve carrying out his duties. Geoff Cannon,
below centre, may vote for UKIP, headed by Nigel Farage, below right
BEN CAWTHRA/STEFAN ROUSSEAU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

RIGHT, BRITAIN, THE CLEAN-UP STARTS HERE;
WELCOME TO LAND If you want to see UKIP's ideas in action, take a look at
Ramsey, the only town in Britain run by the party, write Francesca Angelini and
Mark Hookham

BYLINE: Angelini; Mark Hookham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1448 words


Every evening just after 6pm, once he has finished work, Councillor Peter Reeve
stops by at his local public conveniences. First, knocking on the doors of the
four cubicles to make sure they are empty, he sets to with mop and bucket to
give them a thorough scrubbing.

It is not the only extracurricular work carried out by Reeve, 36, as part of his
drive to save council funds in Ramsey, a Cambridgeshire market town of 6,000
people.

A member of the town, district and county councils, he also collects litter,
spruces up cemeteries, sweeps up dog dirt, grits hard-to-reach lanes in icy
weather and helps out the police when there is trouble.

Nor is there any escape from council business for Reeve when he gets home. His
wife, Lisa Duffy, is Ramsey's mayor, and his mother, Shirley, sits on the town
council.

Welcome to local politics - UKIP-style. This formerly rocksolid Conservative
town has turned into a test-bed for a party making the transition from a
single-issue group fixated on opposition to Brussels into a fourth force in
British politics.

Since 2011, when Reeve, his wife and his mother, plus their six allies, won a
majority of the 17 seats on the town council, this has been the only local
authority in Britain controlled by UKIP. Until now, that is. In the council
elections on Thursday, when seats are being contested in 34 English local
authorities (all but seven of which are county councils) as well as Anglesey in
north Wales, the party is fielding 1,745 candidates - just 18 fewer than the
Liberal Democrats.

The party, which is at level pegging with the Lib Dems on 11% in this weekend's
YouGov poll, looks set to take 40-50 seats - a considerable improvement on the
handful it won when the same seats were contested in 2009.

Although this is a fraction of the total seats being fought, the party is
expected to take away a number of votes from the Conservatives, who are forecast
to lose about 310 seats.

Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader, said Ramsey, with its bigsociety-on-steroids
approach, is the perfect example of what a UKIP-controlled Britain would look
like.

"Local budgets can't pay for everything so if we want to improve our community,
we roll our sleeves up and do it ourselves," said Farage.

"It's just astonishing - the people of the town love it."

THE party has been in existence for 20 years and won 13 seats - and second place
- in the 2009 European elections, which were fought on proportional
representation. But its successes in domestic elections have been limited.

This is due, in part, to the first-past-the-post electoral system that penalises
small parties. UKIP won 3% of the vote during the last general election and
Farage's attempt to oust John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, from Buckingham ended
in humiliation when he was beaten into third place.

Over the past three years, however, UKIP has begun hitting double figures in the
polls, buoyed by voter antipathy to the mainstream parties. Last November its
candidate took 21.7% of the vote and second place behind Labour in the Rotherham
by-election.

In February UKIP scored 27.8% of the vote - and second place - in Eastleigh,
behind the Lib Dems. Many believed that if the campaign had lasted another week
Diane James, its candidate, might have won.

The party's prospects have been boosted by the charisma - and formidable
political skills - of its leader.

A pint of beer in one hand and Rothmans in the other, Farage, 49, has positioned
himself as an outsider fighting not just the European Union but also the
Westminster establishment.

The former commodities trader knows how to work a crowd, too - as he showed last
week at a dinner for journalists.

In a reference to his wife Kirsten Mehr, a former bond broker from Hamburg, he
quipped: "I know what it's like to live in a German-dominated household!" In
typically bullish form, he also revelled in describing how a French presidential
candidate had taken him to a lap-dancing club in Strasbourg - and he had enjoyed
it.

This weekend he brushed off suggestions that traditional Conservative voters in
the shires would be shocked by such behaviour. "I hadn't noticed Mrs Thatcher
avoiding Peter Stringfellow," he said.

"She might not have approved particularly herself of such things, but she
recognised the fact that Peter Stringfellow ran a legal business and ran it well
and he was almost one of her champions because he was an entrepreneur."

He has nothing in common with the Lib Dems politically, but they are proving to
be Farage's inspiration.

In the past few years he has followed the example of Paddy Ashdown, who as
leader of that party in the 1990s concentrated on building up council seats as a
staging post for success on a national level.

"If we are going to win seats in Westminster we have to succeed at district and
county council level and build up clusters, hotspots of support in exactly the
same way that Ashdown took the Lib Dems from being tiny in the Commons to having
a serious representation," said Farage.

While the Lib Dems concentrated their support in Cornwall, Devon and Somerset in
the southwest, UKIP is attempting to build up its base in Cambridgeshire,
Lincolnshire and Essex.

This presents David Cameron with a dilemma. The prime minister's attempt in
January to spike Farage's guns by offering voters a referendum on EU membership
in 2017 if he wins the next election does not appear to have stemmed the party's
rise.

A STRONG showing by UKIP on Thursday will add to Cameron's woes especially if,
as some analysts predict, the party goes on to win next year's elections to the
European parliament.

Nevertheless, Conservative sources insist Cameron will avoid the temptation of
tacking to the right - citing his appointment last week of Boris Johnson's
younger brother Jo - a pro-European moderniser - as his policy chief.

Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, the pollster, said Cameron has no need to
panic: he does not expect UKIP to win a single seat in the 2015 general election
because he thinks traditional Tory voters will return to the fold out of fear
that a vote for UKIP risks handing victory to Labour.

"The Tories will be saying: don't even think about voting UKIP because a vote
for UKIP is a vote for that dangerous left-wing Europhile Ed Miliband to become
prime minister," said Kellner.

Farage's other challenge is the increasing scrutiny of his party's candidates
after revelations that several of them have eccentric views or links with
far-right groups: what Kellner calls "the plonker problem".

Farage admitted last week that UKIP could not vet all its council candidates,
adding: "While from time to time we may attract the odd fruitcake, the odd
loony, the odd nutcase, doesn't every voluntary organisation?" He made his
comments after it emerged that Susan Bowen, due to stand in Cornwall, had been
thrown out of UKIP because she was a former British National party member.

Yesterday Chris Scotton, 24, a UKIP candidate in Leicestershire, was suspended
over his alleged involvement with the far-right English Defence League (EDL).
Scotton's Facebook profile shows he has "liked" eight separate EDL Facebook
pages, along with a page entitled: "RacismNaa Mate its just ethnic banter"
[sic].

While making for embarrassing newspaper headlines, such considerations do not
appear to be denting the party's popularity on the ground.

In Ramsey, Reeve is confident of holding his county council seat, one of those
being contested on Thursday, and even of improving on the 43% of the vote with
which he won it in 2009.

UKIP banners are on display in the windows of many of the houses. Then there is
the garish purple UKIP minibus trundling up the high street every hour,
emblazoned with the slogans "Here comes common sense" and "Out of EU".

Set up to "fill in the gaps left by the county council cuts to bus services", it
ferries residents about for free. Non-UKIP members are welcome.

"They speak to the people here in Ramsey and they're talking sense with their
immigration policies," said Geoff Cannon, 58, who runs Sticky Fingers, a sweet
shop. "We don't want to be run by Brussels.

I've never voted for UKIP before but I would now."

Such views are music to Reeve's ears. "At first we picked up the protest vote
and votes from dissatisfied Conservatives.

Now support is coming from right across the spectrum, from all classes and
cultures," he said.

"We're getting old Labour votes, the white van man who supported Thatcher and
created her revolution and we're increasingly winning over the high-Tory vote,
the shooting brigade who you would never have dreamt would vote UKIP."

Thursday's results will tell if he is right.

Additional reporting:

Dipesh Gadher.

A quick beating, then Tories are back in game, Adam Boulton, page 23

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP councillor Peter Reeve carrying out his duties. Geoff Cannon,
below centre, may vote for UKIP, headed by Nigel Farage, below right
BEN CAWTHRA/STEFAN ROUSSEAU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Labour terminates its principles to avoid taking abortion stand

BYLINE: JUSTINE McCARTHY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1109 words


Ihad the privilege last year of touring the National Maternity Hospital in
Holles Street. I was writing about the creaking infrastructure of the maternity
services in Ireland, which has the EU's highest birth rate, some of its most
decrepit buildings, and insufficient resources.

Peter Boylan, a former master at Holles Street, brought me to the intensive care
unit, a hushed sanctuary of winking technology and tiny babies struggling to
stay alive. At one incubator, Boylan peered at the patient card. "She's 23 weeks
and 680g," he said, "and she could grow up to be the taoiseach." Even at an
advanced stage in his career, he had lost none of his wonder at the magic of
blossoming human life.

If you visit the websites of Youth Defence and the Life Institute, you may be
tempted to presume they speak of a different Peter Boylan. In demonising
vernacular, they accuse him of supporting abortion legislation, as if it were
his shameful secret. The fact is, he belonged to the government's expert group
that recommended legislation following a ruling from the European Court of Human
Rights.

The anti-abortion lobby has criticised the Galway coroner's invitation to Boylan
to testify at the inquest into the death last year of Savita Halappanavar
following a miscarriage at 17 weeks. Boylan told the inquest that, had a
termination been done on Monday, October 22, Savita would probably still be
alive but this could not be done because it was against the law. The Life
Institute says an obstetrician "neutral" on the abortion issue should have
testified. Show me an obstetrician indifferent to Ireland's abortion law and
I'll show you an obstetrician who doesn't care about his patients.

In the Seanad, Rónán Mullen complains the anti-abortion lobby is not being
listened to. This is more of the same denial of reality that landed us with
Article 40.3.3 of the constitution in the first place.

Last Sunday, Breda O'Brien, a prominent anti-abortion advocate, provided a
demonstration on Marian Finucane's RTE Radio show of the reasons why some
elements of the antiabortion lobby should not be given the disproportionate
media platform they get, imbuing often disingenuous arguments with undeserved
credibility. She claimed Savita Halappanavar had been "fully dilated" when
admitted to Galway University Hospital on Sunday, October 21, despite repeated
evidence at the inquest that she was dilated just 2cm of the 10cm required for
delivery. O'Brien, a school teacher, told Boylan his opinion on the law was
"deeply flawed" and that Savita's treating consultant, Dr Katherine Astbury, had
also misinterpreted the law. The antiabortion lobby believes, incidentally, that
the Supreme Court's judgment in the 1992 X case was wrong too.

It may have discombobulated O'Brien that Boylan said circumstances such as those
leading to Savita's death were the only ones where women's wishes were, by law,
not taken into account in obstetrics care in Ireland. He likened it to "the
Taliban".

O'Brien countered that Professor John Bonnar, a distinguished obstetrician
prominent in past referendum debates, said on RTE's Prime Time he would have
been "in like a light" on Monday, October 22, two days before Savita
spontaneously delivered. O'Brien implied Bonnar's utterance was significant
because he "would be universally acknowledged to be deeply conservative on
this". Boylan disputed O'Brien's version of what Bonnar had said. He had been on
Prime Time with Bonnar, he said, and had challenged him about the timing of
intervention.

Again, Boylan was correct. What Bonnar said was: "We should have started the
antibiotic and then terminated, and that should have been done by Tuesday." To
which Boylan responded: "John, come on."

Later in the programme, though, Bonnar said something more significant. Claire
Byrne, the Prime Time presenter, asked Boylan: "The woman should have a say in
her care?" "Yes, absolutely," he replied. "I agree with that," said Bonnar.

Yet the government is planning to publish a bill that will copperfasten the
legal prohibition on a pregnant female's wishes being considered.

If she reasonably fears she will develop a swift and fatal infection, her wishes
will be disregarded. If her foetus has virtually no hope of independent
survival, her wishes will be disregarded. If she was raped, her wishes will be
disregarded, even if she is 12 or was left to die in some back alley.

Anthony McCarthy, a perinatal psychiatrist, described as "abusive" a Fine Gael
draft proposal that six doctors would certify a woman's suicidal ideation before
she be allowed an abortion. Whatever eligibility process is ultimately
formulated, the law being planned constitutes a fundamental breach of women's
rights.

The ructions within Fine Gael give no hint of this. A passionately anti-abortion
rump in the party objects to the inclusion of suicidal ideation as grounds for
abortion. The suicide condition has been law for 21 years and its abolition was
twice rejected by the people in referendums.

Clearly, some members of Fine Gael's parliamentary party simply do not want the
X judgment enacted.

What is confounding is that their government colleagues in the Labour party are
not demanding the legislation go beyond X's narrow confines. As the people are
not being allowed a referendum to abolish Article 40.3.3, then X, restricted as
it is to the circumstances of a single case, should not be the legislative
prototype. Politicians should do what they have not had the backbone to do for
the past 30 years: pass legislation that deals with all eventualities.

Labour's stated policy is that abortion be permitted in cases of lethal foetal
abnormality and where there is a risk of "significant injury to the physical
health of the mother". What they are settling for falls below a standard
espoused by someone as "deeply conservative" as Bonnar.

Labour's surrender of core beliefs smacks of political pragmatism. They
privately applaud Boylan's courage and wait for the next girl or woman with a
crisis pregnancy to seek the courts' protection and spark another debate, but
they are not prepared to risk their own Dail seats after 30 years of a
legislative vacuum.

On October 22 last year, Savita Halappanavar was a healthy young woman but her
foetus was 90% likely to die soon. Yet the constitution regarded them as equal
beings. The new law will not change that. To those of us watching with sinking
hearts, Labour's expediency is more troubling than Fine Gael's voluble
soul-searching. Is only one party in government willing to be guided by its
conscience? justine.mccarthy@sunday-times.ie

'POLITICIANS SHOULD DO WHAT THEY HAVE NOT HAD THE BACKBONE TO DO FOR 30 YEARS'

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tackling the EU: don't get out, get even;
A new campaign group is needed to negotiate a better deal for Britain. Matthew
Elliott launches it

BYLINE: Matthew Elliott

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 896 words


Over the past few years Britain's relationship with the European Union has
turned into something that increasingly resembles an unhappy marriage, even down
to a row over who keeps the fish. Arguments about who should have power over
what now dominate political discussion in Westminster and Brussels. The European
institutions and the governments of many eurozone countries want to integrate
their economies and political systems further, viewing Britain as a drag on
their federalist ambitions. On the other hand the British public (not to mention
voters in many other countries) feel the EU has integrated too far and want
powers devolved back to the member states.

Faced with this unhappy situation the kneejerk reaction of many has been to say
the time has come to ditch the EU and race off into the great unknown. With the
constant drip of stories about Brussels waste, barmy regulations and powers
being transferred to the EU against our wishes, it's understandable that many
now feel leaving the EU would be the best option. But the sensible approach,
articulated by the prime minister in his Bloomberg speech in January, is to sit
down with our European neighbours and see if we can work out a deal that we can
all be happy with.

I believe this is the right path to take and that the other political parties
should emulate this policy. When you start having arguments with your spouse the
first stop should be the marriage counsellor, not the divorce court. Likewise I
believe that before contemplating leaving the EU we should see if renegotiation
can keep Britain in - but on better terms.

Polling and focus groups have consistently shown that the refusal of politicians
to address the public's concerns with the EU simply bolsters popular support for
"getting out". It is politicians saying it's too risky to have a renegotiation
and referendum who are, via their intransigence, making an "out" vote much more
likely.

Bizarrely, the people most opposed to this pragmatic approach - and the best bet
for keeping Britain in Europe - are those who claim to be Europhiles. When the
prime minister made his speech a small group of businessmen, including
luminaries such as Sir Richard Branson and Sir Martin Sorrell, condemned the
idea, warning that such a policy would be a disaster for British business.

These are the same people who claimed business was united in support for euro
membership and warned that our economy would suffer if we didn't join. Despite
the eurozone crisis, some of them continue to bang this drum today so you'll
forgive me if I don't take their warnings seriously.

What angers me is that this small band claim to speak for all of British
business when they make these statements. They don't. A British Chambers of
Commerce poll released last week showed almost two-thirds of British business
want to take powers back from the EU - yet if you were to listen to the
pro-European idealists in the upper echelons of the Confederation of British
Industry (CBI) you would think all enterprises were committed European
federalists.

There is nothing new about this frustrating bias. Fifteen years ago, faced with
a fanatically pro-euro CBI leadership, business leaders were forced to create a
campaign group, Business for Sterling, to highlight concerns with the single
currency. It was amazingly successful and the group ended up playing a key role
in keeping Britain out of the euro.

Today we face a similar situation, with a small group of self-appointed business
spokesmen making radically pro-EU statements, skewing the national debate.
That's why tomorrow a campaign will be launched called Business for Britain. The
successor to Business for Sterling, it will bring together more than 500 people,
from FTSE 100 directors to family-owned businesses that are the backbone of our
economy, to articulate the demand that this government, or a future one, gets a
better deal from the EU: for jobs, for growth, for Britain.

The time has come for a proper campaign; one that the vast majority - who don't
want "out" but are fed up with the current "in" - can support. It will be the
first fully non-partisan, independent campaign for a new deal from Brussels. As
the campaign director of the "no" campaign at the alternative vote (AV)
referendum, I saw first-hand how powerful a truly cross-party campaign can be.
As Labour parliamentarians joined the "no to AV" cause, the more vocal minority
found themselves squeezed and the final result was emphatic.

At Business for Britain we will squeeze the vocal minority once again. We will
be working as hard as possible to push the other party leaders to sign up to a
thorough renegotiation, just as we will hold the government to its promise to
get the best deal not just for business, but also for the British people.

The European vision that we signed up to in 1975 has changed beyond recognition.
Resentment towards Brussels is growing within Britain and our businesses,
burdened with excessive regulation and protectionist policies, struggle to pull
the country free from sluggish growth and stagnant retail conditions. Business
for Britain will fight for renegotiation, for a deal that reflects and protects
the interests of the business community and the British people.

The time for thinking and debating is over. It's time to campaign for a better
deal.

Matthew Elliott is chief executive of Business for Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Demand for better EU deal

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 390 words


FIVE hundred business people will heap pressure on David Cameron to renegotiate
Britain's relationship with the European Union.

Scores of companies are throwing their weight behind Business for Britain, a
campaign group that is demanding a better deal on jobs, growth and other policy
areas from Brussels.

The list of individuals backing the campaign will be published tomorrow and will
range from FTSE 100 directors to the owners of smaller businesses.

Announcing the campaign, Matthew Elliott, the chief executive of Business for
Britain, argues that the relationship with the EU "increasingly resembles an
unhappy marriage, even down to a row over who keeps the fish".

"Faced with this unhappy situation the kneejerk reaction of many has been to say
the time has come to ditch the EU and race off into the great unknown," he says.

"With the constant drip of stories about Brussels waste, barmy regulations and
powers being transferred to the EU against our wishes, it's understandable that
many people now feel leaving the EU would be the best option."

However, writing in today's Sunday Times, Elliott says that the sensible
approach is to resolve the key problems, rather than go separate ways.

"When you start having arguments with your spouse, the first stop should be the
marriage counsellor, not the divorce court. Likewise I believe that before
contemplating leaving the EU we should see if renegotiation can keep Britain in
- but on better terms."

Cameron has promised to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU
after he has attempted to renegotiate the terms. That pledge was condemned
earlier this year by several high-profile business figures, including Sir
Richard Branson and Sir Martin Sorrell.

Labour opposes a referendum, making it unlikely if the Tories fail to win a
majority in 2015. Eurosceptic MPs are impatient for reform, fearing that, unless
Cameron steps up the pace, little will be achieved.

Elliott argues that the debate over Britain's relationship with the EU has been
tilted by pro-European businessmen in favour of the status quo.

"A small group of selfappointed business spokesmen making radically pro-EU
statements [are] skewing the national debate," he writes. "The time has come for
a proper campaign; one that the vast majority - who don't want 'out' but are fed
up with the current 'in' - can support."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Retirees face payout cuts

SECTION: BUSINESS;NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 307 words


RETIRED workers should have their pensions cut to leave more money for those
still working when bankrupt pension schemes are wound up, the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has recommended, writes Niall
Brady. The proposal, to be revealed tomorrow, is part of a sweeping review of
pensions commissioned by the government.

It comes in the same week that a landmark decision is expected from the European
Court of Justice (ECJ) in a case taken by former employees of Waterford Crystal,
who lost most of their their pensions when the company collapsed in 2009.

Pensions law required trustees of the Waterford scheme, which left a deficit of
more than (EURO)100m when it was wound up, to use most of its assets to protect
the pensions of retired members, leaving little for those still at work.

Some of those who lost out are trying to recover their losses by going to the
ECJ, alleging the state broke European law by failing to meet an obligation to
protect workers whose employers become insolvent. A decision is expected on
Thursday.

The OECD recommends changing the order of priority when pension schemes are
wound up by distributing more of the assets to members still at work, reducing
pensions for retired members.

Its recommendation has the backing of a coalition of employers, trade unions and
actuaries. Last November, it urged Joan Burton, social protection minister, to
make pensions fairer. "As a result of the priority afforded to pensioner
benefits on wind-up, a disproportionate burden will be borne by active and
deferred members," the group wrote.

Sources say the government dropped a plan last year to reform the priority order
for fear of upsetting pensioners prior to the referendum on the fiscal treaty.
The Department of Social Protection said no decision has been made on a change
in the priority order.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

What would Judy say about our judges?

BYLINE: PAUL ANTHONY McDERMOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 852 words


Last week, RTE Television announced it was taking the popular kitchen drama Raw
off the menu.

The official reason was budgetary constraints. I suspect the real explanation is
that a new kitchen drama unexpectedly premiered on Irish screens last week. It's
entitled Law.

The cast of this show includes the justice minister and the Irish judiciary, and
critics are already predicting this drama has all the ingredients to break
ratings records.

It stars a controversial restaurant owner who keeps meddling with what is going
on in the kitchen, forcing the head chef to intervene in order to keep the
peace. The scriptwriters are still working out where the love interest will lie,
but betrayal is expected to feature prominently in the plot.

There has been a lot of media analysis comparing the terms and conditions of
Irish judges to those in other jurisdictions. However, no one in the debate has
yet examined the working conditions of the world's most famous judge, namely
Judith Sheindlin. A few days ago I got to meet my heroine for the first time
when she visited the Four Courts during a trip to Ireland. Little did Judge Judy
realise, as she was shown around the building, that a drama was about to erupt
that even her viewers would find hard to credit.

Like the Master of the High Court, every day Judge Judy faces queries as to
whether or not she is a real judge. On the plus side, Judge Judy's independence
is never interfered with by the executive branch of government, although her
judicial musings are interrupted every 10 minutes or so by an ad break.

In terms of pay, Judge Judy's annual salary is reported as $45m ((EURO)34m). She
has never complained that this is not enough for a person to live on, and there
are no reports of the government suggesting she is overpaid. While our justice
minister may narrow-mindedly choose to compare judicial salaries here with those
in other EU countries, if you weigh them up against Judge Judy's then it becomes
clear Irish judges are in fact surviving on the breadline.

Judy's salary works out at about $123,000 a day, which compares favourably to
President Obama, who is currently struggling by on a mere $2,191 a day. In
Moldova, judges earn a paltry $3,220 a year, which would equate to half an hour
of Judge Judy, but it is not clear whether the cases they hear are as important
as the ones she has to wrestle with, and so I draw no conclusions from this
statistic.

As regards judicial holidays, our courts close at the end of July and leisurely
reopen in the first week of October.

Of course, the length of the "Long Vacation" has been criticised by some jealous
commentators, but in fact the days worked here compare favourably with Judge
Judy, who sits for only 52 days a year.

It is not clear whether Obama consults Judy on the wording of referendums, but
given the size of her audience it would be a foolish president indeed who did
not take her views on current social controversies into account.

Judge Judy's sittings attract 10m viewers. This puts our judges in the shade,
since one High Court hearing I saw last Friday had a public audience of three
persons, and one of those appeared to be a hobo taking shelter from the rain.

In order to justify their pay, our judges need to consider their ratings. One
option is to go online.

Judge Judy has a website called Whatwouldjudysay.com, which contains videos of
her advice on such topics as Wedding Debt Dilemma, Contracts for Dummies, and
Pre-Nup or No Nup. Sadly, there seem to be no advice videos on Pension
Contributions or How to Appoint a Judge. However, her website has a challenging
games section, which is definitely something the Courts Service should consider
introducing here to make reading practice directions more interesting.

Many Irish judges wrote legal textbooks before they ascended to the bench. As
someone who has to regularly consult these texts, I can confirm none of them are
as entertaining or well-named as Judge Judy's first book, entitled Don't Pee on
My Leg and Tell Me It's Raining.

It has been suggested that one of the main attractions of the Judge Judy show is
that it offers a fantasy of how everyone would like the justice system to
operate. All of her cases are decided at high speed without the intervention of
verbose lawyers, and nobody ever gets to appeal. There are no grey areas; every
case has a good guy and a bad guy and the outcome is that the bad guy gets the
public humiliation he deserves. Unfortunately, in real life, judges are faced
with complex intractable disputes in which all of the issues are opaque and may
become even more so depending on the quality and motives of the lawyers
appearing.

The struggle to plough through boxes of documents and weeks of testimony to find
where truth truly lies does not always make for entertaining viewing, but it is
the lifeblood of democracy. The system only works if judges are respected,
because nobody will accept verdicts from people who are treated dismissively by
politicians.

The currency of the system is respect.

In the immortal words of Judge Judy: "When my mouth is moving, it means that you
need to be quiet."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 21, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

What would Judy say about our judges?

BYLINE: PAUL ANTHONY

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 852 words


Last week, RTE Television announced it was taking the popular kitchen drama Raw
off the menu.

The official reason was budgetary constraints. I suspect the real explanation is
that a new kitchen drama unexpectedly premiered on Irish screens last week. It's
entitled Law.

The cast of this show includes the justice minister and the Irish judiciary, and
critics are already predicting this drama has all the ingredients to break
ratings records.

It stars a controversial restaurant owner who keeps meddling with what is going
on in the kitchen, forcing the head chef to intervene in order to keep the
peace. The scriptwriters are still working out where the love interest will lie,
but betrayal is expected to feature prominently in the plot.

There has been a lot of media analysis comparing the terms and conditions of
Irish judges to those in other jurisdictions. However, no one in the debate has
yet examined the working conditions of the world's most famous judge, namely
Judith Sheindlin. A few days ago I got to meet my heroine for the first time
when she visited the Four Courts during a trip to Ireland. Little did Judge Judy
realise, as she was shown around the building, that a drama was about to erupt
that even her viewers would find hard to credit.

Like the Master of the High Court, every day Judge Judy faces queries as to
whether or not she is a real judge. On the plus side, Judge Judy's independence
is never interfered with by the executive branch of government, although her
judicial musings are interrupted every 10 minutes or so by an ad break.

In terms of pay, Judge Judy's annual salary is reported as $45m ((EURO)34m). She
has never complained that this is not enough for a person to live on, and there
are no reports of the government suggesting she is overpaid. While our justice
minister may narrow-mindedly choose to compare judicial salaries here with those
in other EU countries, if you weigh them up against Judge Judy's then it becomes
clear Irish judges are in fact surviving on the breadline.

Judy's salary works out at about $123,000 a day, which compares favourably to
President Obama, who is currently struggling by on a mere $2,191 a day. In
Moldova, judges earn a paltry $3,220 a year, which would equate to half an hour
of Judge Judy, but it is not clear whether the cases they hear are as important
as the ones she has to wrestle with, and so I draw no conclusions from this
statistic.

As regards judicial holidays, our courts close at the end of July and leisurely
reopen in the first week of October.

Of course, the length of the "Long Vacation" has been criticised by some jealous
commentators, but in fact the days worked here compare favourably with Judge
Judy, who sits for only 52 days a year.

It is not clear whether Obama consults Judy on the wording of referendums, but
given the size of her audience it would be a foolish president indeed who did
not take her views on current social controversies into account.

Judge Judy's sittings attract 10m viewers. This puts our judges in the shade,
since one High Court hearing I saw last Friday had a public audience of three
persons, and one of those appeared to be a hobo taking shelter from the rain.

In order to justify their pay, our judges need to consider their ratings. One
option is to go online.

Judge Judy has a website called Whatwouldjudysay.com, which contains videos of
her advice on such topics as Wedding Debt Dilemma, Contracts for Dummies, and
Pre-Nup or No Nup. Sadly, there seem to be no advice videos on Pension
Contributions or How to Appoint a Judge. However, her website has a challenging
games section, which is definitely something the Courts Service should consider
introducing here to make reading practice directions more interesting.

Many Irish judges wrote legal textbooks before they ascended to the bench. As
someone who has to regularly consult these texts, I can confirm none of them are
as entertaining or well-named as Judge Judy's first book, entitled Don't Pee on
My Leg and Tell Me It's Raining.

It has been suggested that one of the main attractions of the Judge Judy show is
that it offers a fantasy of how everyone would like the justice system to
operate. All of her cases are decided at high speed without the intervention of
verbose lawyers, and nobody ever gets to appeal. There are no grey areas; every
case has a good guy and a bad guy and the outcome is that the bad guy gets the
public humiliation he deserves. Unfortunately, in real life, judges are faced
with complex intractable disputes in which all of the issues are opaque and may
become even more so depending on the quality and motives of the lawyers
appearing.

The struggle to plough through boxes of documents and weeks of testimony to find
where truth truly lies does not always make for entertaining viewing, but it is
the lifeblood of democracy. The system only works if judges are respected,
because nobody will accept verdicts from people who are treated dismissively by
politicians.

The currency of the system is respect.

In the immortal words of Judge Judy:

"When my mouth is moving, it means that you need to be quiet."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 14, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MICHEAL;
Women played a big role in dumping Fianna Fail and could, according to the
polls, bring it back from the wilderness, writes Stephen O'Brien

BYLINE: Stephen O'Brien

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1587 words


Adog-eared and faded photograph, now almost 100 years old, is a treasured
possession in Cathy Dalton's household. Three young women are standing in the
sunshine in the stately grounds of Duckett's Grove estate in Carlow. They are
smiling, joking and toting Lee Enfield rifles.

The signing of the Anglo-Irish Treaty was just months away, and these women are
at the heart of the war of independence leading to it.

The insurgents are comrades of Dalton's grandmother Annie McKenna, members of
Cumann na mBan, the Irish Volunteers' female auxiliary force.

"My granny and grand-aunt fought for my right to vote, and it was drummed into
me to always use it," said Dalton, a Kilkenny architect and PhD student. "Here I
am, a century later, and I nearly didn't vote the last time. Despite all that
has happened, I may actually vote for Fianna Fail at the next election."

Dalton has traditionally voted ABFF - "anybody but Fianna Fail" - but such is
her anger with the current government, particularly with Fine Gael, she is
contemplating, like many Irish women, a shift. Surveys conducted for The Sunday
Times by the market researcher Behaviour & Attitudes (B&A) have tracked the
growing political influence being wielded by Irish women in elections and
referendums.

There are more women in the floating-voter bloc, and they are more inclined to
switch allegiance and to dump a longtrusted party. As they watch their children
emigrate, sign on the dole, or struggle to pay their way through college, Irish
women are responsible for a growing volatility in the electorate. So might the
volatility that drove Fianna Fail to the brink of extinction two years ago
eventually propel Micheál Martin's party back into office? WOMEN have proven to
be more loyal Fianna Fail voters than men down the years, according to Claire
McGing, a research student in gender politics at the National University of
Ireland (NUI). "Even when the party declines in popular support, polls suggest
women 'float' back to them much sooner than men," she said.

"Women flocked to the Labour party in large numbers in 2011, mainly due to their
stance on tax increases and public expenditure - Joan Burton may have helped -
[but] the party is rapidly losing this support to Fianna Fail. Given women's
preference for tax increases over expenditure changes [mainly because they are
more reliant on public services], Fine Gael is also failing to appeal to unhappy
women voters."

Many professionals and business people voted Fine Gael in 2011 because they saw
no other choice, said Dalton but she has lost faith in the largest party as they
have cut benefits while failing to tackle publicsector pensions.

"I have floated between Fine Gael and Labour over the years, but this time they
have turned me into a true floating voter through their policies," she said. "I
agree we need fiscal rectitude but I see gross inequity in terms of how that is
being dealt with. A lot of self-employed people my age have not got a bean.
There is no job, no retirement fund.

"A lot of the time women take the rap when there are cuts in benefits or funding
for carers. The social agenda may well matter when it comes to deciding how
they'll vote."

International research bears her out, according to Fiona Buckley, a lecturer in
government at University College Cork (UCC). In America's presidential election
last year, Barack Obama won the female vote by 56% to Mitt Romney's 44% while
the Republican party candidate won among men by 54% to 46%. The gender gap was
the largest Gallup ever measured in a US presidential election.

"It wasn't simply a case of women's rights issues driving the female vote in
favour of Obama," said Buckley. "Romney's plans to reduce after-school and
jobtraining programmes, as well as planned parenthood schemes, discouraged women
from voting for him."

Buckley believes women were a big factor in Fianna Fail's landslide victory in
1977, the last time a single party won an overall Dail majority. When Charles
Haughey ousted Jack Lynch as party leader and taoiseach, some of those women
drifted over to Fine Gael and Garret FitzGerald's brand of social democracy,
putting him into coalition government with Labour for five years.

"Since the inception of The Sunday Times/B&A opinion poll series, the role of
the female voter in precipitating shifts in public opinion has been remarkable,"
said Ian McShane, managing director of B&A. "Women remain considerably more
dissatisfied with the performance of the government than men. Last month's poll
indicated just 21% of females are satisfied with the government, compared to 30%
of males. In January there was only 13% satisfaction among women.

"Even this simple analysis indicates the views of female voters will be pivotal
to any recovery in the fortunes of this administration as they face into next
year's local and European elections."

A typical floating voter is Val Robus, a housewife and mother in Co Sligo, who
views the next electoral cycle with an open mind. "I'm not tied to any one party
and I don't think I ever would be," she said.

"I take time to find out about each candidate and their policies. The leaflets
are a good way to see what is important to each candidate; also when they call
it is a good way to find out if they have the same beliefs and priorities as I
do."

The polls show women took precisely this studious approach in May 2012 when the
country was asked to vote on the complex EU fiscal treaty. A B&A poll six weeks
before voting showed a 15% lead for the Yes vote but one in three people had yet
to make up his or her mind.

"Crucially, the poll revealed a vast difference in the percentage of undecideds
between male voters (22%), and females (41%)," said McShane. "When we conducted
our next survey 10 days before polling, the situation had transformed. The male
figure had barely moved, but the female 'don't knows' were down 12 points.

"The shift in opinion between the two polls had been driven entirely by female
voters who had converted from the undecideds. The female bloc carried the
referendum."

So if they put Labour into coalition with Fine Gael in 2011, and decided the
fiscal treaty referendum last year, what might women voters do next? "The hand
that rocked the cradle rocked the system," Mary Robinson famously proclaimed at
her inauguration in Dublin Castle in 1990 after being elected Ireland's first
woman president. While Robinson's victory encouraged political parties to field
more female candidates, that momentum has since dissipated, according to Dara
Calleary, a Fianna Fail TD from Robinson's home town of Ballina, Co Mayo.

Once an opponent of gender quotas, Calleary believes they are needed now, at
least temporarily, to ensure the electorate can vote for women candidates in
every local authority ward. "Women don't automatically support a female
candidate but they will support an articulate, hard-working female candidate,"
he said.

"When you're talking to men on the doorstep, for example, they will have
specific issues. Women will want to know if there will be jobs for their
children when they leave school. They will tell you their children are in Canada
and will ask about policy measures that might make it possible for them to come
home. That's one difference."

Calleary acknowledges Fianna Fail's serious female deficit in Leinster House.
None of its 19 TDs are women and just two of its 14 senators are. He says a
large number of the party's "local area representatives" - would-be council
candidates - are female and predicts there will be a significant increase in the
number of women Fianna Fail councillors elected next year.

Sinn Fein, despite the impact of Mary Lou McDonald, the deputy leader, is
struggling to keep its support in the high teens and fell four points to 15%
last month in a poll by The Sunday Times.

"Largely due to its historical associations, Sinn Fein has difficulty in
attracting more female support," said McGing. "The fact that females are less
likely to see themselves as hardline nationalists is a factor here. According to
exit polls at the 2009 European elections, even McDonald is much more popular
with men.

"Party leadership is also a factor [in gender difference]. For some reason,
Micheál Martin is especially popular with females."

In September 2012 Fianna Fail hovered around 16% support and its leader's
satisfaction rating was on 34%; 32% among women. Two months later, perhaps
because of a more aggressive attitude in the Dail, Martin's personal
satisfaction rating with women surged 10 points to 42% and his overall rating
rose by the same amount. The party jumped six points to 22%, and the recovery of
Fianna Fail was the political phenomenon of of 2012.

"I would prefer to see a new political party emerge with an emphasis on the
social agenda or an ethical approach," said Dalton, looking forward to the next
general election. "My mother may be spinning in her grave to hear it, but I may
well vote for Fianna Fail because of how this government has failed."

Dalton, who has designed a number of medical facilities for the Health Service
Executive, recalls Martin as health minister attending the opening of one
hospital unit and attending a dinner dance marking the event. "The senior nurses
were nearly fighting over who got to dance with him," she said. "You should have
seen it."

Whether Martin can eventually dance his way back into government may be decided
by the women of Ireland, starting next summer.

'' MOTHERS WILL TELL YOU THEIR CHILDREN ARE IN CANADA AND WANT TO KNOW OF
POLICIES TO HELP THEM COME HOME

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dissatisfaction with the government's austerity programme has
encouraged many to take a second look at Martin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 14, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Her legacy is not what you think;
The Iron Lady myths did not mirror her true views or beliefs, writes Dominic
Lawson

BYLINE: Dominic Lawson

SECTION: MARGARET THATCHER;FEATURES; Pg. 26,27

LENGTH: 925 words


It is a backhanded compliment to the enduring force of Margaret Thatcher's
legacy that David Cameron's big idea during the 2010 general election was a
scheme designed above all to be a repudiation of the remark that for many summed
up the woman who dominated the Conservative party and British politics for a
generation.

The verbless slogan of the big society, combined with Cameron's mantra "There is
such a thing as society, it's just not the same thing as the state" was meant to
tell the British public that the Tory party was not the one that Thatcher led.

Yet it's worth returning to that notorious Woman's Own interview of September
1987, to put Thatcher's memorable phrase back in the context in which it was
uttered: "I think we have gone through a period when too many children and
people have been given to understand 'I have a problem, it is the government's
job to cope with it!"... and so they are casting their problems on society and
who is society? There is no such thing ... there is a living tapestry and the
beauty of that tapestry and the quality of our lives will depend on how much
each of us is prepared to take responsibility for ourselves and each of us is
prepared to turn around and help by our own efforts those who are unfortunate."

This tapestry is - isn't it? - exactly the same concept as Cameron's big
society: the idea that we should all, as individuals, do our bit voluntarily to
help the least fortunate, without always waiting for government to do it for us.
Indeed, in her 1996 Keith Joseph memorial lecture, five years before Cameron
even entered parliament, Thatcher declared: "I have never minimised the
importance of society, only contested the assumption that society means the
state rather than other people."

We shall see soon enough whether the big society is similarly disappointing to
its proponent. Whether it is or not, the point is clear: the idea that Cameron's
Conservatives represent a clean break with Thatcher's real legacy is, to this
extent at least, a politically convenient fiction.

What has not survived of that legacy in the politics of the 21st century is the
unsentimental language of its creator. In an age that seems to reward sentiment
above true feelings, and the expression of concern above mere action, no
politician would dare to say, as Thatcher did to David Dimbleby in the final
week of the 1987 general election campaign, that she didn't have any time for
"people [who] just drivel and drool [that] they care".

Just as that sort of language reinforced the view that Thatcher was genuinely
unconcerned about poverty or individual suffering, so the myth has been
established that she had been a ferocious cutter of public expenditure. In
practice, while her rhetoric (especially at party conferences) did not
discourage anyone from taking such a view, Thatcher was immensely reluctant to
take any radical action to reduce the scale and responsibilities of the welfare
state; indeed, the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition is now addressing
those questions in a way that Thatcher always feared to do.

In general, Thatcher in practice was much more cautious than her political
legacy suggests. It's all too easy to forget that for her entire frontline
political career, there really was an immense Communist dictatorship with its
nuclear missiles trained on this country, and with - as we now know - detailed
plans of what to do with Britain once it had been militarily subdued.

Towards the bitter end of her period of office, Thatcher developed the view that
the European Union had become a threat to British freedoms on a similar scale to
that provided by the Soviet empire. For the political class today, this is seen
as her most immediately obvious impact and especially within the Conservative
party.

This is where that legacy and the facts about her real career diverge
startlingly - and not only because she had led the Britain in Europe campaign
during the 1975 referendum, wearing a pullover with the flags of the member
states.

In 1985 she had pushed through the Single European Act, even though a number of
her colleagues warned her that the Brussels commission's proposals for a single
market were explicitly linked to the move to a single European currency and were
also designed to provide the framework for Europe-wide social legislation. And
so it proved, with all the consequences for the Conservative party that tore it
apart, destroying the leadership of her successor, John Major.

It is true that Thatcher later gave vent to her fury at having been so - as she
would see it - misled, but by then it was far too late. Britain had relinquished
unprecedented powers over its own legislative process, via the Single European
Act, which could be recovered only by outright secession from the union,
something she may finally have come to believe necessary but would never say in
public.

This was one paradox of the Thatcher legacy. The other is that while her
greatest achievement was to free British industry from the dead hand of state
control - via privatisation and the rejection of prices and incomes policies -
she simultaneously created a system in which Whitehall annexed the entire
decisionmaking process over such vast spheres as education and health that
previously had been the role of local government.

Again, this was a reflection of the struggles of the time: against what used to
be called "the loony left" in local government. Yet this legacy, so untypical of
what we think of as Thatcherism, is truly the one that Cameron's government is
sworn to destroy.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wowing Ronald Reagan and, above right, getting up close to Mikhail
Gorbachev
PHOTOS: LARRY RUBENSTEIN/JAMES MORGAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Mandelson takes up cudgels against anti-EU 'Dirty 20'

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 416 words


LORD MANDELSON has become a key strategist for a new pro-Europe movement that
has compiled a hit list of Eurosceptic politicians it is calling "the Dirty 20".

Mandelson is co-president of British Influence, a group that intends to build a
national network of activists, companies and charities to promote the benefits
of EU membership and thwart the influence of UKIP.

The group plans to use these activist networks to "hold ... to account"
politicians when they make anti-EU comments.

At a meeting earlier this month Mandelson, who masterminded the campaign that
swept Tony Blair to power in 1997, approved the group's strategy, which bears
many of his hallmarks.

The Dirty 20 are believed to include prominent UKIP figures including Nigel
Farage, the party leader, as well as Tory backbenchers such as Douglas Carswell
and Philip Davies, who have been at the forefront of Eurosceptic revolts against
David Cameron.

Reacting to his likely inclusion in the hit list, Farage said: "It sounds like
Mandelson has lost nothing of the black arts. They have lost the argument and
will now tackle the player, not the ball."

British Influence's toolkit for activists will include a "rapid rebuttal"
facility, supplying them with material to combat Eurosceptic comments by
politicians and stories online as well as in local and national media.

Rapid rebuttal was one of the key techniques used by Mandelson in 1997.

The group faces a difficult task to shift public opinion. A YouGov poll last
week found that 44% of respondents favoured Britain leaving the EU, with only
one in three saying they would vote to stay in.

Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum on Britain's EU membership after the
next election, after a renegotiation of the relationship.

British Influence's strategy calls for the building of a "campaign army to
support pro-European candidates in 2014 [for the European parliament elections]"
and then to move into fighting for a yes vote in any referendum.

The group plans to provide support to anti-Eurosceptic candidates of whatever
party.

Peter Wilding, director of British Influence, said it was "critical to expose
the shallowness of UKIP's position and recognise that there is a silent majority
which want Britain to stay in and be a positive player in Europe".

Davies said he would regard being targeted as a "badge of honour". Carswell
added: "If they want to target me, they might find that a lot easier than
targeting the millions of people who share my view that we need to leave the EU.
"

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mandelson: 'black arts'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PS: Cyprus has broken the [...]

BYLINE: DAVID SMITH

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 176 words


PS: Cyprus has broken the eurozone mould. It is the first member country to
inflict punishment directly on bank depositors and the first to impose capital
controls, something we thought we had said farewell to when the euro was born.

Cyprus now faces the grimmest of times. After shrinking since mid-2011, it faces
Greek-style collapse. Its bloated banking sector and reputation for money
laundering were not obstacles to euro entry in 2008 but are considered
unacceptable by other members now.

Surprisingly, Cyprus's woes have not destroyed the euro's attractions for
potential members. Donald Tusk, the Polish prime minister, says he is keen for a
referendum on membership. Latvia has applied to join next year, saying that for
small economies being inside is preferable to the buffeting you get outside. Is
that still true? The experience of Cyprus is that small countries get bullied,
humiliated and subjected to the kind of heavy-handed treatment bigger euro
members have avoided. Life outside looks a lot better in comparison.

david.smith@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Mandelson takes up cudgels against anti-EU 'Dirty 20'

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 416 words


LORD MANDELSON has become a key strategist for a new pro-Europe movement that
has compiled a hit list of Eurosceptic politicians it is calling "the Dirty 20".

Mandelson is co-president of British Influence, a group that intends to build a
national network of activists, companies and charities to promote the benefits
of EU membership and thwart the influence of UKIP.

The group plans to use these activist networks to "hold ... to account"
politicians when they make anti-EU comments.

At a meeting earlier this month Mandelson, who masterminded the campaign that
swept Tony Blair to power in 1997, approved the group's strategy, which bears
many of his hallmarks.

The Dirty 20 are believed to include prominent UKIP figures including Nigel
Farage, the party leader, as well as Tory backbenchers such as Douglas Carswell
and Philip Davies, who have been at the forefront of Eurosceptic revolts against
David Cameron.

Reacting to his likely inclusion in the hit list, Farage said: "It sounds like
Mandelson has lost nothing of the black arts. They have lost the argument and
will now tackle the player, not the ball."

British Influence's toolkit for activists will include a "rapid rebuttal"
facility, supplying them with material to combat Eurosceptic comments by
politicians and stories online as well as in local and national media.

Rapid rebuttal was one of the key techniques used by Mandelson in 1997.

The group faces a difficult task to shift public opinion. A YouGov poll last
week found that 44% of respondents favoured Britain leaving the EU, with only
one in three saying they would vote to stay in.

Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum on Britain's EU membership after the
next election, after a renegotiation of the relationship.

British Influence's strategy calls for the building of a "campaign army to
support pro-European candidates in 2014 [for the European parliament elections]"
and then to move into fighting for a yes vote in any referendum.

The group plans to provide support to anti-Eurosceptic candidates of whatever
party.

Peter Wilding, director of British Influence, said it was "critical to expose
the shallowness of UKIP's position and recognise that there is a silent majority
which want Britain to stay in and be a positive player in Europe".

Davies said he would regard being targeted as a "badge of honour". Carswell
added: "If they want to target me, they might find that a lot easier than
targeting the millions of people who share my view that we need to leave the EU.
"

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mandelson: 'black arts'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PS: Cyprus has broken the [...]

BYLINE: DAVID SMITH

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 176 words


PS: Cyprus has broken the eurozone mould. It is the first member country to
inflict punishment directly on bank depositors and the first to impose capital
controls, something we thought we had said farewell to when the euro was born.

Cyprus now faces the grimmest of times. After shrinking since mid-2011, it faces
Greek-style collapse. Its bloated banking sector and reputation for money
laundering were not obstacles to euro entry in 2008 but are considered
unacceptable by other members now.

Surprisingly, Cyprus's woes have not destroyed the euro's attractions for
potential members. Donald Tusk, the Polish prime minister, says he is keen for a
referendum on membership. Latvia has applied to join next year, saying that for
small economies being inside is preferable to the buffeting you get outside. Is
that still true? The experience of Cyprus is that small countries get bullied,
humiliated and subjected to the kind of heavy-handed treatment bigger euro
members have avoided. Life outside looks a lot better in comparison.

david.smith@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mandelson takes up cudgels against anti-EU 'Dirty 20'

BYLINE: Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 416 words


LORD MANDELSON has become a key strategist for a new pro-Europe movement that
has compiled a hit list of Eurosceptic politicians it is calling "the Dirty 20".

Mandelson is co-president of British Influence, a group that intends to build a
national network of activists, companies and charities to promote the benefits
of EU membership and thwart the influence of UKIP.

The group plans to use these activist networks to "hold ... to account"
politicians when they make anti-EU comments.

At a meeting earlier this month Mandelson, who masterminded the campaign that
swept Tony Blair to power in 1997, approved the group's strategy, which bears
many of his hallmarks.

The Dirty 20 are believed to include prominent UKIP figures including Nigel
Farage, the party leader, as well as Tory backbenchers such as Douglas Carswell
and Philip Davies, who have been at the forefront of Eurosceptic revolts against
David Cameron.

Reacting to his likely inclusion in the hit list, Farage said: "It sounds like
Mandelson has lost nothing of the black arts. They have lost the argument and
will now tackle the player, not the ball."

British Influence's toolkit for activists will include a "rapid rebuttal"
facility, supplying them with material to combat Eurosceptic comments by
politicians and stories online as well as in local and national media.

Rapid rebuttal was one of the key techniques used by Mandelson in 1997.

The group faces a difficult task to shift public opinion. A YouGov poll last
week found that 44% of respondents favoured Britain leaving the EU, with only
one in three saying they would vote to stay in.

Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum on Britain's EU membership after the
next election, after a renegotiation of the relationship.

British Influence's strategy calls for the building of a "campaign army to
support pro-European candidates in 2014 [for the European parliament elections]"
and then to move into fighting for a yes vote in any referendum.

The group plans to provide support to anti-Eurosceptic candidates of whatever
party.

Peter Wilding, director of British Influence, said it was "critical to expose
the shallowness of UKIP's position and recognise that there is a silent majority
which want Britain to stay in and be a positive player in Europe".

Davies said he would regard being targeted as a "badge of honour". Carswell
added: "If they want to target me, they might find that a lot easier than
targeting the millions of people who share my view that we need to leave the EU.
"

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mandelson: 'black arts'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 17, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Two days of pain won't stop Dave ploughing on

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1147 words


Worries about a triple-dip recession, which is actually already a five-year-long
recession. Plunging opinion poll ratings for the Conservatives; a two-digit lead
for Labour pointing to perhaps a three-digit Miliband majority after the next
election. Cabinet ministers on manoeuvres to take over the leadership just as
soon as it's vacant. Backbenchers in revolt. Yet another U-turn, on a minimum
alcohol price. The NHS in crisis.

All this on the eve of a budget for which the prime minister and chancellor
assure us they have no new ideas. And then David Cameron goes and calls a vote
in the Commons tomorrow on Leveson, which his spokespeople assure us he expects
to lose. According to the headlines, Cameron's gambit has torn the coalition
apart and given Labour and the Liberal Democrats a dress rehearsal for their
joint starring roles in the next coalition government.

No wonder Ed Miliband - who trounced Cameron at prime minister's questions last
week with his version of the old joke about booze-ups in breweries - is accusing
him of "a historic error". While Labour spinners, headed by a rejuvenated
Alastair Campbell, hail a defining moment at which the prime minister's
authority starts draining away.

Tomorrow's votes on press regulation and Wednesday's budget are indeed set to
consolidate the political mood as Britain settles into the downhill run to 2015.
But that mood may be "stick with us" rather than the "time for a change" that
Labour so earnestly desires. Arrogant and complacent though he may be, Cameron
still does not think the public mood has turned decisively against his
nonchalant style of leadership.

Thatcher is remembered for the Falklands and the miners' strike, Blair will be
for ever framed by the war on terror, but many other prime ministers have to
knuckle down and make their own luck, for good or bad.

The bluff, quietly confident Cameron is temperamentally suited to KBO ("keep
buggering on"), as Churchill put it. It's no coincidence his invocations of Sir
Winston have increased as the pressures on him have mounted. Cameron can rise to
an occasion, as he demonstrated with his Bloody Sunday apology, but on balance
he'd rather not.

The big event defining his premiership, the credit crunch, didn't happen on his
watch and closed down in advance his options for drastic action. Seldom a man
for detail, he does have a fondness for bold gestures when under pressure, such
as forming the coalition, announcing an EU referendum or now on Leveson. But
rather than strategic masterstrokes slicing through the Gordian knot, these tend
to be tactical gambles leaving loose ends.

In any event the prime minister always works with a safety net to save his
coalition from smashing. He expertly altered the terms of trade in politics to
try to ensure that his time in office would be a test of stamina rather than a
tightrope walk. Spurning minority government, he formed a coalition with a
healthy overall majority, and used it to vote through fixed-term parliaments.

The press regulation saga is turning out to be a classic demonstration of the
Cameron style. When the hacking allegations went toxic, he called a press
conference to discuss press-politician relations with more frankness and
eloquence than any of his predecessors. Then he played for time, first setting
up the ponderous Leveson inquiry, and then encouraging further discussion of its
recommendations right up to round tables with Nick Clegg and Miliband.

Next he lost patience and embarked on a unilateral gamble to "bring the matter
to a head" in the Commons. According to Downing Street, the prime minister
called Labour's bluff, exasperated by Miliband's back-channelling to the Hacked
Off pressure group and by ungentlemanly attempts to poison unrelated legislation
by tacking on hardline amendments on press regulation.

As negotiations continue this weekend, rival Labour and Conservative plans for
regulation by royal charter seem to have moved much closer together. Both sides
now expect the house to resolve its position on Leveson a long way short of
Hacked Off's demands. If so, Cameron may claim victory on substance but quite
possibly at the price of a Commons defeat of some Tory proposals: a typically
messy, bumbling-along, Cameronian outcome.

It's poker, but for low stakes - the coalition was never on the table. Cameron
has never allowed press regulation to become a government-threatening matter of
confidence on the grounds that it was not part of any coalition agreement.
That's why he and his deputy made separate statements to parliament when Leveson
reported and why Cameron previewed tomorrow's drama as "hung parliament
territory".

So by Wednesday Conservatives and Liberal Democrats will be alongside each other
again for George Osborne's there-isno-alternative budget. In fact, even tomorrow
ministers from both parties will demonstrate their togetherness on Britain's
future by applauding the winners of the first Nobel-style Queen Elizabeth Prize
for Engineering.

The economic programme remains the glue that binds the coalition - and by far
the greatest gamble that Cameron, Clegg, Osborne and Vince Cable have taken.

With more than two years to go until the next election, the chancellor's main
task is to be boring. The Treasury inveigled him into a few flourishes in last
year's budget, and look where that got him. The mandarins' snobbish jibes about
"rotisserie chickens" didn't sound so funny when the tabloids turned them into
the pasty tax. Osborne may not even have to unveil lowered growth forecasts. In
its Green Budget 2013, the wholly independent Institute for Fiscal Studies
reports that its forecasts "are not dissimilar" to the officially independent
Office for Budget Responsibility and "above the market consensus over the longer
term". (The IFS predicts net growth of 1% this year will rise to 2.9% in 2017.)
A budget "staying the course", as Cameron has put it, will be helped by the lack
of consensus on which way to turn - cuts in spending and taxes, as advocated by
Liam Fox, or borrowing for infrastructure, as mooted by Cable and The Economist
magazine.

The most bilious, and most predictable, exchanges are likely to be between Ed
Balls and Osborne. Balls can say, "I told you so," about the flatlining of the
economy but his recipe of tax cuts and spending and borrowing increases has yet
to outstrip the coalition's austerity message in opinion polls. Labour's slogan
juxtaposing Tory tax cuts for millionaires with benefits cuts for the poor is
powerful. It has been adapted for the Leveson debate to claim that Cameron is
for Rupert Murdoch and Paul Dacre of the Daily Mail and against "the victims".
If he KBOs, and provided the chancellor doesn't "B up" the budget again, the PM
reckons most voters won't see things in such simple terms come May 2015.
Something might even turn up. Perhaps even the economy. A little.

@adamboultonsky

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brussels draws up curbs on bosses' pay;
After reining in bank bonuses, the EU is planning British-style powers over
executive rewards

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458 words


THE European Commission is preparing legislation that will give shareholders of
public companies the authority to block excessive executive pay deals.

The EC's plans have been inspired by last week's agreement to cap bankers'
bonuses across the European Union and the success of a referendum in Switzerland
that could lead to drastic cuts in pay for top managers.

EU law prohibits imposing salary limits, but the legislation being drafted by
Michel Barnier, the French commissioner in charge of internal market and
financial regulation, will give shareholders a mandatory say on executive pay.

The proposal is similar to the measures being introduced in Britain by Vince
Cable, the business secretary, which force companies to give investors a legally
binding vote on remuneration every three years.

"I am in favour of making shareholders more responsible on pay and I am
currently working on EU legislation that would give shareholders a mandatory say
on remuneration," said Barnier last week.

A spokeswoman for Barnier said the legislation would be ready later this year.
She added that the Swiss referendum was a boost to the commission's efforts to
curb corporate excess and that the EU must not be seen as lagging countries such
as Switzerland.

At present shareholders have only an advisory role - boards have the final say
on senior management salaries.

In Britain, the government is drafting a bill that, if it passes through
parliament in October, will impose a similar system of tough rules for
managerial salaries and exit payments. The popular discontent with corporate
largesse has put pressure on leaders in other European countries, such as
Germany and France, to consider similar steps.

Under the commission's proposal, agreed by EU ministers, bankers' bonuses will
be reduced to the level of their salary.

Support for the challenge to executive pay comes from the European parliament.

Sharon Bowles, the Liberal Democrat MEP who chairs the economic and monetary
affairs committee, said she wanted to see more restraint in executive pay across
the board: "While we cannot have wholesale interference in people's pay, it is
right to empower shareholders as the Swiss have done."

In Switzerland, the government was bitterly opposed to last week's referendum,
but the country's constitution allows for anyone to call a referendum if they
get enough signatures. The initiative against "fat cats," proposed by Thomas
Minder, head of a toothpaste firm, was backed by almost 70% of voters.

Critics including Economiesuisse, a pressure group, have argued that the
effective pay cap for top managers would send out a "negative signal for
Switzerland as a place for doing business". Similar arguments have been used by
the opponents of a move at EU level.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories facing a Dunkirk, says Ashcroft

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Tony Grew

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1091 words


THE dire state of the Conservative party in the opinion polls was yesterday
likened to the British army's evacuation from Dunkirk.

The Tory grandee Lord Ashcroft warned a conference for grassroots supporters in
London that his polling of 19,000 voters in 213 marginal seats showed that, if
an election were held tomorrow, Labour would win an overall majority of 84
seats.

He suggested the Tory's socalled "40-40 strategy" designed to seize 40 key
marginal seats from other parties and hold off the threat to 40 others was
over-optimistic as it did not address the scale of its unpopularity right across
the country. "At first blush it does seem that with that result in the
marginals, that in military terms it seems like planning the final assault on
Berlin while evacuating the beaches at Dunkirk," said Ashcroft, speaking at the
Conservative Home conference in Westminster.

The peer warned of severe swings away from the Conservatives in the seats that
they will be seeking to hold against Labour, adding that the situation was worse
in those the party aimed to win from Labour where the swing away from the Tories
is "around 10%".

Ashcroft's poll findings - which he stressed were a snapshot - will further
jangle nerves among Tory MPs.

Speculation of plots against the leadership continues to swirl. Theresa May, the
home secretary, was emerging as a serious candidate to succeed David Cameron,
with her allies doing little to quell the talk. Philip Hammond, the defence
secretary, was touted as a potential running mate - the socalled "Top Gear
ticket", named after the presenters of the BBC motoring show.

May yesterday set out her stall in a highly political speech that delighted
activists at the conference.

She launched a hard-hitting attack on the European Court of Human Rights, saying
the Tories would draw up a plan for "dealing" with the court by 2015, which
could include quitting the convention it enforces. "When Strasbourg constantly
moves the goalposts and prevents the deportation of dangerous men like Abu
Qatada, we have to ask ourselves, to what end are we signatories to the
convention," she said.

But it was May''s decision to stray far from her crime and immigration brief
that is likely to fuel further leadership speculation.

She advocated radical public service reform, saying more charities, private
sector companies and co-operatives should provide front-line services.

She added: "But it's not just freedom from the state we need to think about. We
need to think, too, about freedom from vested interests. That means taking on
trade unions that are resistant to change.

"And it means speaking up when people have been let down by big bureaucracy,
like the appalling absence of care at Mid-Staffordshire [trust], the treatment
of elderly people at care homes like Winterbourne View, or the organised abuse
of vulnerable young girls in Derby and Rochdale."

Meanwhile, friends of Adam Afriyie, the Windsor MP at the centre of the biggest
rebel plot against Cameron's leadership, say support for him has gradually been
accumulating. At least two ministers - not in the cabinet - are said to have
been to visit him to tell him they see him as someone with strong leadership
potential.

Boris Johnson, the London mayor, is seen by some as the only contender with a
proven track record of winning elections, but is regarded by senior figures as
untrustworthy and indecisive.

Also last week, it emerged that the Thatcherite No Turning Back group had held a
dinner in which members complained about the leadership and discussed how to put
pressure on Cameron to bring forward legislation promising a referendum on
Britain's membership of the European Union. This weekend, a separate group of
Eurosceptics, led by the backbencher John Baron, has written to the prime
minister calling on him to legislate for the Europe vote.

Some 40 MPs are now said to be ready to demand a vote of no confidence in
Cameron as party leader. If they write letters to Graham Brady, who chairs the
backbench 1922 committee, this will trigger a process that could end up bringing
down Cameron. Many backbenchers are openly upset by Cameron's apparent lack of
ability to communicate with the party, let alone the rest of the country. One MP
said: "There are about 100 of us who are just worried we'll lose our seats, we
just want a winner. For all his flaws - he's got no shortage of those -
desperation might pull me to Boris."

Others complain that the party risks losing voters in droves to UKIP after it
beat the Tories to third place in the recent Eastleigh by-election.

Some, however, believe that the Tories simply need to calm down and get on with
the leadership they have.

Nick Gibb, the MP for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton and a former minister, was
among those urging the party to calm down this weekend.

"What we have to be able to get across to impatient Tory voters is that flirting
with UKIP ... simply weakens us and undermines the very causes they believe in,"
said Gibb. "To help us deliver more Conservative policies we need more
Conservative MPs in the Commons, not fewer."

Ashcroft's polling did contain a crumb of comfort for the Tories, suggesting
they could seize as many as 17 seats from the Lib Dems in 2015, including
Eastleigh.

In a sign of the increasingly open divisions between the coalition partners,
Lord Ashdown, the former Lib Dem leader who is expected to play a crucial role
in the 2015 election campaign, attacked the "casual and heartless incompetence"
of the Tories, when he spoke at his party's spring conference in Brighton
yesterday.

Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister and Lib Dem leader, meanwhile, argued that
the party's success at Eastleigh showed its fortunes were looking positive.
"There is a myth that governing together, in coalition, diminishes the ability
of the smaller party to beat the bigger party. The idea is that in Tory facing
seats the Liberal Democrats will find it impossible to distinguish our record,
our values, from theirs," said Clegg.

"But that myth has been utterly confounded. The opposite is true. The longer you
stand side-by-side with your opponents the easier your differences are to see."

He joked about UKIP, saying it was in a "lovely sweet spot in British politics"
where it was not challenged on policy. He said the party was now favoured by
"grumpy Tories".

"If you don't believe in gay marriage, you don''t like coalition, you don't like
compromise, [you think] I am going to vote for the real McCoy. I can see how
people might do that."

Cameron's drift towards defeat, Editorial, page 22

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A speech by Theresa May did little to quell speculation she may seek
the leadership

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Don't even ask: I won't change my tune;
ITALY'S OLD GUARD ARE AS MISGUIDED AS CEAUSESCU, SAYS BEPPE GRILLO AS THEY
CLAMOUR FOR AN ALLIANCE

BYLINE: John Follain

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 960 words


EVER the showman, Beppe Grillo, the former comedian who is breaking the mould of
Italian politics, sat down at a grand piano in his sitting room and fired off a
medley of blues and jazz. His shoeless feet beat out the rhythm on the marble
floor.

A virulent, often foulmouthed speaker at campaign rallies, Grillo was a
courteous and obliging host on Friday during an interview with The Sunday Times
at his home, an elegant villa set among cypress trees with a sweeping view of
the Ligurian coast.

He willingly played the piano when asked, ordered coffee from a maid and posed
for photographs with a plastic model of a human brain; he stabbed a toy knife
into it and tapped it with his knuckle. "This is the problem," said Grillo, 64,
with a straight face. "We have to change the brains of Italians."

The anti-establishment campaigner described his election triumph last month as
"a French Revolution without the guillotine" and compared his political foes to
Nicolae Ceausescu, the former Romanian dictator, facing the firing squad in
1989. He steadfastly refuses to break a deadlock that threatens to force new
elections as the conventional parties struggle to form a coalition.

"When I say it, I sound like a megalomaniac, but this is the end of an epoch and
the birth of a new one. These are the death rattles of an old political class
that doesn't want to go home," said Grillo, whose internetbased Five Star
Movement is now Italy's biggest party.

"The system is collapsing because of the state of the economy, not because of
Grillo, but they want to blame someone and so they blame me. They say I create
chaos, that we need 'governability'," he said.

His campaign tapped into widespread exasperation with corrupt politicians and
austerity policies to win more than 8m votes last month.

Pier Luigi Bersani, the leader of the centre-left Democratic party, which with
its coalition partners was the narrow winner of the election, has lambasted
Grillo for his refusal to forge an alliance that would enable Bersani to form a
government.

But Grillo will not budge.

"You have to see this from a psychiatric point of view - these are people who
have never taken responsibility for anything," he said.

I ask if he means such leading figures as Bersani, Mario Monti, the outgoing
prime minister, and Silvio Berlusconi, the former prime minister. "All of them,
all of them ... they are as stunned as Ceausescu was when he came out on the
terrace thinking thousands would embrace him and instead they kindly executed
him."

Grillo has said he would back reforms by a Bersani government only on a
case-by-case basis. But his refusal to back the government in an initial vote of
confidence is likely to kill it at birth.

Grillo bristled when asked a question set by La Repubblica newspaper on the
morning of our interview: why doesn't he carry out an online poll to find out if
people want him to give a Bersani government a chance? "I'm not interested in
what people think - I'm interested in those who gave us the vote and those in
the movement," he said.

"And we ran an election campaign with principles and promises that we intend to
keep. So if I made an alliance with anyone, the movement would dissolve itself
immediately because it would go against one of our pillars - that is, no to an
alliance with anyone."

He has gained three points in the polls since the election, with about 29% of
voters now backing him.

Grillo insisted he wants to change the entire political system and foster
"direct democracy", with referendums to propose new laws. He also wants all new
laws to be debated on the web three months before they go before parliament.

His priorities, he said, are electoral reform and legislation to clamp down on
political corruption and conflict of interest - the latter policy is aimed at
Berlusconi, a media tycoon - as well as a "citizens' allowance" of payments to
people who lose their jobs.

Asked whether he wanted Italy to abandon the euro - Grillo has called for a
referendum on the issue, spooking EU leaders and financial markets - he replied:
"Debt is our problem, not the euro. We're already a stagnant economy with a
thousand companies closing every day ... so for the next five years let's talk
about an alternative - the costs and benefits of going on like this or leaving
the euro."

Despite his success Grillo is keen to remain a political outsider.

Along with Bersani and Berlusconi he has been invited to meet Monti but he has
no plans to do so. "No, I'd be embarrassed. What do we have to say to each
other?" he laughed.

"It would be presumptuous for me to go and see Monti - I'm an actor; I'm not a
political leader. Monti is the official receiver; what can he say to me? His
therapy is completely at odds with our ideas." Asked whether he hoped to become
prime minister one day, Grillo exclaimed: "No, no, no, it's absolutely out of
the question. I don't have the cultural or linguistic abilities, I'm an actor
... I want to live quietly with my family."

Unprompted, he said he feared his family's peace would be destroyed by media
attention. He singled out a cover story in L'Espresso magazine that said Walter
Vezzoli, his driver, was one of the administrators of 13 companies set up in
Costa Rica, a former tax haven.

"I'm on the cover but my driver lived there," he said, adding that he would sue
the magazine. "Vezzoli wanted to build this [eco-friendly] village - there is
nothing, just drawings on the internet."

Asked about the contrast between his personality at home and on the campaign
trail, Grillo said: "Yes, people who see me here are surprised I don't swear or
shout at them.

"In a piazza you have to reach people 200 or 300 yards away; you need physical
presence. The shouting and then the swear word that ends a phrase - that's a
technique."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Beppe Grillo says one of the pillars of his party is to refuse any
alliance
NICK CORNISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tories facing a Dunkirk, says Ashcroft

BYLINE: Jack Grimston ; Tony Grew

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1089 words


THE dire state of the Conservative party in the opinion polls was yesterday
likened to the British Army's evacuation from Dunkirk.

The Tory grandee Lord Ashcroft warned a conference for grassroots supporters in
London that his polling of 19,000 voters in 213 marginal seats showed that if a
general election were held tomorrow, Labour would win an overall majority of 84
seats.

He suggested the Tory's socalled "40-40 strategy" designed to seize 40 key
marginal seats from other parties and hold off the threat to 40 others was
over-optimistic as it did not address the scale of its unpopularity right across
the country. "At first blush it does seem that with that result in the
marginals, that in military terms it seems like planning the final assault on
Berlin while evacuating the beaches at Dunkirk," said Ashcroft, speaking at the
Conservative Home conference in Westminster.

He warned of severe swings away from the Conservatives in the seats they will be
seeking to hold against Labour, adding that the situation was worse in those the
party aimed to win from Labour where the swing away from the Tories is "around
10%".

Ashcroft's poll findings - which he emphasised were a snapshot rather than a
prediction - will jangle Tory nerves. Speculation of plots against the
leadership continues. Theresa May, the home secretary, was emerging as a serious
candidate to succeed David Cameron, with her allies doing little to quell the
talk. Philip Hammond, the defence secretary, was touted as a potential running
mate - the so-called "Top Gear ticket", named after the presenters of the BBC
motoring show.

May yesterday set out her stall in a highly political speech that delighted
activists at the conference. She launched a hard-hitting attack on the European
Court of Human Rights, saying the Tories would draw up a plan for "dealing" with
the court by 2015, which could include quitting the convention it enforces.

"When Strasbourg constantly moves the goalposts and prevents the deportation of
dangerous men like Abu Qatada, we have to ask ourselves to what end are we
signatories to the convention," she said.

It was May's decision to stray far from her crime and immigration brief,
however, that is likely to fuel further leadership speculation. She advocated
radical public service reform, saying more charities, private sector companies
and co-operatives should provide frontline services.

She added: "But it's not just freedom from the state we need to think about. We
need to think, too, about freedom from vested interests. That means taking on
trade unions that are resistant to change.

"And it means speaking up when people have been let down by big bureaucracy,
like the appalling absence of care at Mid-Staffordshire [trust], the treatment
of elderly people at care homes like Winterbourne View, or the organised abuse
of vulnerable young girls in Derby and Rochdale."

Meanwhile, friends of Adam Afriyie, the Windsor MP who is the focus of a rebel
plot against Cameron's leadership, say support for him has been accumulating.

At least two ministers - not in the cabinet - are said to have visited to tell
him they see him as someone with strong leadership potential.

Boris Johnson, the London mayor, is seen by some as the only contender with a
proven track record of winning elections, but he is regarded by some senior
figures as difficult to trust and shy of taking tough decisions.

Also last week it emerged that the Thatcherite No Turning Back group had held a
dinner where members complained about the leadership and discussed how to put
pressure on Cameron to bring forward legislation promising a referendum on
Britain's membership of the European Union. This weekend a separate group of
Eurosceptics, led by the backbencher John Baron, has written to the prime
minister calling on him to legislate for the Europe vote.

Some 40 MPs are said to be ready to demand a vote of no confidence in Cameron as
party leader. If they write letters to Graham Brady, who chairs the backbench
1922 committee, this will trigger a process that could bring down Cameron.

Many backbenchers are openly upset by the prime minister's apparent lack of
ability to communicate with the party, let alone the country. One said: "There
are about 100 of us just worried we'll lose our seats, we just want a winner.
For all his flaws - he's got no shortage of those - desperation might pull me to
Boris." Others complain the party risks losing voters in droves to UKIP after it
beat the Tories to third place in the recent Eastleigh by-election.

Some believe the Tories need to calm down and get on with the leadership that
they have. They include Robert Halfon, the MP for Harlow, who said: "Of course
things look bleak at the moment in mid-term ... but the public would regard us
with disgust if we started messing around with who is leading the party."

Nick Gibb, MP for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton and a former minister, said:
"What we have to be able to get across to impatient Tory voters is that flirting
with UKIP ... simply weakens us and undermines the very causes they believe in."

Ashcroft's polling did contain a few crumbs of comfort for the Tories, for
example in suggesting they could seize as many as 17 seats from the Liberal
Democrats in 2015.

In a sign of divisions between the coalition partners, Lord Ashdown, the former
Lib Dem leader who is expected to play a crucial role in the 2015 election
campaign, attacked the "casual and heartless incompetence" of the Tories when he
spoke at his party's spring conference in Brighton yesterday.

Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister and Lib Dem leader, meanwhile argued that
the party's success at Eastleigh showed there was a positive future. He said
there was a myth that governing together in coalition diminishes the ability of
the smaller party to beat the bigger party.

"The idea is that in Toryfacing seats the Liberal Democrats will find it
impossible to distinguish our record, our values, from theirs," said Clegg.

"But that myth has been utterly confounded. The opposite is true. The longer you
stand side by side with your opponents the easier your differences are to see."

He joked about UKIP, saying it was in a "lovely sweet spot in British politics"
where it was not challenged on policy, adding that the party was now favoured by
"grumpy Tories".

"If you don't believe in gay marriage, you don't like coalition, you don't like
compromise, [you think] I am going to vote for the real McCoy. I can see how
people might do that."

Cameron's drift towards defeat, Editorial, page 22

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A speech by Theresa May did little to quell speculation she may seek
the leadership

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

May's radical manifesto wows Tory faithful

BYLINE: Jack Grimston ; Tony Grew

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1109 words


THE home secretary, Theresa May, has fuelled speculation about her leadership
ambitions by delivering a hard-hitting attack on European human rights laws and
laying out a platform of policies she wants in the next Tory manifesto.

In a speech that delighted her audience of grassroots activists, May said the
next Conservative government should scrap the Human Rights Act, blamed
Strasbourg court for preventing the deportation of Abu Qatada, the radical
preacher, and said her party should set out a plan for "dealing with" European
human rights judges.

Her defiant tone at a conference hosted by the Conservative Home website was a
contrast to grim warnings delivered by Lord Ashcroft, the party grandee, that
the state of the party in the opinion polls was similar to that of Britain as it
was evacuating the beaches at Dunkirk in 1940.

It was May's decision to rove far from her crime and immigration brief that will
fuel the leadership speculation. She advocated radical public service reform,
with charities, private sector companies and cooperatives providing far more
frontline services. She also attacked the "appalling absence of care" at the Mid
Staffordshire hospital trust.

May three times said David Cameron would lead the Tories into the next election,
but this did not stop some of the delegates welcoming her words as those of a
future leader.

The home secretary, who has previously been advocated by some in the Tory party
primarily as a "stop Boris Johnson" candidate, is now seen as an increasingly
strong contender to succeed Cameron.

She said: "When Strasbourg constantly moves the goalposts and prevents the
deportation of dangerous men like Abu Qatada - who I'm pleased to say is now
going to be re-detained - we have to ask ourselves to what end are we
signatories to the convention."

May added: "It's not just freedom from the state we need to think about. We need
to think, too, about freedom from vested interests. That means taking on trade
unions that are resistant to change."

Her speech comes amid rising discontent and plotting against Cameron by
backbenchers pessimistic about the next election. Many blame Cameron for an
inability to communicate with his own party members. Some complain the Tories
risk losing voters in droves to UKIP after it beat the Tories into third place
in the Eastleigh by-election.

The scale of the task facing them was laid out in stark terms to the conference
by Ashcroft.

He said his polling of 19,000 voters in 213 marginal seats showed that if a
general election were held tomorrow, Labour would win an overall majority of 84
seats.

He suggested the Tories' socalled "40-40 strategy" to seize 40 key marginals and
hold off the threat to 40 others was over-optimistic as it did not address the
scale of the party's challenge across the country.

"At first blush it does seem that with that result in the marginals, that in
military terms it seems like planning the final assault on Berlin while
evacuating the beaches at Dunkirk," said Ashcroft.

He warned of severe swings away from the Conservatives in the seats they will be
seeking to hold against Labour, adding that the situation was worse in those the
party aimed to win from Labour where the swing away from the Tories is "around
10%".

Ashcroft's findings - which he emphasised were a snapshot rather than a
prediction - will further jangle Tory nerves.

Amid plots and rumours, May's allies have done little to damp the talking up of
her prospects.

Philip Hammond, the defence secretary, has been touted as a running mate - the
so-called "Top Gear ticket", named after the presenters of the BBC motoring
show.

Meanwhile, friends of Adam Afriyie, the Windsor MP who is the focus of one
significant plot against Cameron's leadership, say support has been
accumulating.

At least two ministers - not in the cabinet - are said to have visited to tell
him he has strong leadership potential.

Johnson, the London mayor, is seen by some as the only contender with a proven
record of winning elections, but some senior figures see him as as hard to trust
and shy of tough decisions.

Last week it emerged that the Thatcherite No Turning Back group had held a
dinner where members complained about the leadership and discussed how to put
pressure on Cameron to bring forward legislation promising a referendum on
Britain's membership of the European Union. This weekend a group of
Eurosceptics, led by the backbencher John Baron, has written to the prime
minister calling on him to legislate for the Europe vote.

If 46 MPs write letters to Graham Brady, who chairs the backbench 1922
committee, they can trigger a process that could bring down Cameron.

Some believe the Tories need to calm down. Robert Halfon, the MP for Harlow,
said: "Of course things look bleak at the moment in mid-term ... but the public
would regard us with disgust if we started messing around with who is leading
the party."

Nick Gibb, MP for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton and a former minister, added:
"What we have to be able to get across to impatient Tory voters is that flirting
with UKIP ... simply weakens us and undermines the very causes they believe in."

Ashcroft's polling did contain a few crumbs of comfort for the Tories, for
example in suggesting they could seize as many as 17 seats from the Liberal
Democrats in 2015.

In a sign of divisions between the coalition partners, Lord Ashdown, the former
Lib Dem leader who is expected to play a crucial role in the 2015 election
campaign, attacked the "casual and heartless incompetence" of the Tories when he
spoke at his party's spring conference in Brighton yesterday.

Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister and Lib Dem leader, meanwhile argued that
the party's success at Eastleigh showed there was a positive future. He said
there was a myth that governing together in coalition diminishes the ability of
the smaller party to beat the bigger party.

"The idea is that in Toryfacing seats the Liberal Democrats will find it
impossible to distinguish our record, our values, from theirs," said Clegg.

"But that myth has been utterly confounded. The opposite is true. The longer you
stand side by side with your opponents the easier your differences are to see."

He joked about UKIP, saying it was in a "lovely sweet spot in British politics"
where it was not challenged on policy, adding that the party was now favoured by
"grumpy Tories".

"If you don't believe in gay marriage, you don't like coalition, you don't like
compromise, [you think] I am going to vote for the real McCoy. I can see how
people might do that."

Cameron's drift towards defeat, Editorial, page 22. $70 trillion is out there.
Let's bag some of it, Liam Fox, page 25

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa May arriving for her speech yesterday in which she urged public
service reform

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Tories facing a Dunkirk, says Ashcroft

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Tony Grew

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1091 words


THE dire state of the Conservative party in the opinion polls was yesterday
likened to the British army's evacuation from Dunkirk.

The Tory grandee Lord Ashcroft warned a conference for grassroots supporters in
London that his polling of 19,000 voters in 213 marginal seats showed that, if
an election were held tomorrow, Labour would win an overall majority of 84
seats.

He suggested the Tory's socalled "40-40 strategy" designed to seize 40 key
marginal seats from other parties and hold off the threat to 40 others was
over-optimistic as it did not address the scale of its unpopularity right across
the country. "At first blush it does seem that with that result in the
marginals, that in military terms it seems like planning the final assault on
Berlin while evacuating the beaches at Dunkirk," said Ashcroft, speaking at the
Conservative Home conference in Westminster.

The peer warned of severe swings away from the Conservatives in the seats that
they will be seeking to hold against Labour, adding that the situation was worse
in those the party aimed to win from Labour where the swing away from the Tories
is "around 10%".

Ashcroft's poll findings - which he stressed were a snapshot - will further
jangle nerves among Tory MPs.

Speculation of plots against the leadership continues to swirl. Theresa May, the
home secretary, was emerging as a serious candidate to succeed David Cameron,
with her allies doing little to quell the talk. Philip Hammond, the defence
secretary, was touted as a potential running mate - the socalled "Top Gear
ticket", named after the presenters of the BBC motoring show.

May yesterday set out her stall in a highly political speech that delighted
activists at the conference.

She launched a hard-hitting attack on the European Court of Human Rights, saying
the Tories would draw up a plan for "dealing" with the court by 2015, which
could include quitting the convention it enforces. "When Strasbourg constantly
moves the goalposts and prevents the deportation of dangerous men like Abu
Qatada, we have to ask ourselves, to what end are we signatories to the
convention," she said.

But it was May''s decision to stray far from her crime and immigration brief
that is likely to fuel further leadership speculation.

She advocated radical public service reform, saying more charities, private
sector companies and co-operatives should provide front-line services.

She added: "But it's not just freedom from the state we need to think about. We
need to think, too, about freedom from vested interests. That means taking on
trade unions that are resistant to change.

"And it means speaking up when people have been let down by big bureaucracy,
like the appalling absence of care at Mid-Staffordshire [trust], the treatment
of elderly people at care homes like Winterbourne View, or the organised abuse
of vulnerable young girls in Derby and Rochdale."

Meanwhile, friends of Adam Afriyie, the Windsor MP at the centre of the biggest
rebel plot against Cameron's leadership, say support for him has gradually been
accumulating. At least two ministers - not in the cabinet - are said to have
been to visit him to tell him they see him as someone with strong leadership
potential.

Boris Johnson, the London mayor, is seen by some as the only contender with a
proven track record of winning elections, but is regarded by senior figures as
untrustworthy and indecisive.

Also last week, it emerged that the Thatcherite No Turning Back group had held a
dinner in which members complained about the leadership and discussed how to put
pressure on Cameron to bring forward legislation promising a referendum on
Britain's membership of the European Union. This weekend, a separate group of
Eurosceptics, led by the backbencher John Baron, has written to the prime
minister calling on him to legislate for the Europe vote.

Some 40 MPs are now said to be ready to demand a vote of no confidence in
Cameron as party leader. If they write letters to Graham Brady, who chairs the
backbench 1922 committee, this will trigger a process that could end up bringing
down Cameron. Many backbenchers are openly upset by Cameron's apparent lack of
ability to communicate with the party, let alone the rest of the country. One MP
said: "There are about 100 of us who are just worried we'll lose our seats, we
just want a winner. For all his flaws - he's got no shortage of those -
desperation might pull me to Boris."

Others complain that the party risks losing voters in droves to UKIP after it
beat the Tories to third place in the recent Eastleigh by-election.

Some, however, believe that the Tories simply need to calm down and get on with
the leadership they have.

Nick Gibb, the MP for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton and a former minister, was
among those urging the party to calm down this weekend.

"What we have to be able to get across to impatient Tory voters is that flirting
with UKIP ... simply weakens us and undermines the very causes they believe in,"
said Gibb. "To help us deliver more Conservative policies we need more
Conservative MPs in the Commons, not fewer."

Ashcroft's polling did contain a crumb of comfort for the Tories, suggesting
they could seize as many as 17 seats from the Lib Dems in 2015, including
Eastleigh.

In a sign of the increasingly open divisions between the coalition partners,
Lord Ashdown, the former Lib Dem leader who is expected to play a crucial role
in the 2015 election campaign, attacked the "casual and heartless incompetence"
of the Tories, when he spoke at his party's spring conference in Brighton
yesterday.

Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister and Lib Dem leader, meanwhile, argued that
the party's success at Eastleigh showed its fortunes were looking positive.
"There is a myth that governing together, in coalition, diminishes the ability
of the smaller party to beat the bigger party. The idea is that in Tory facing
seats the Liberal Democrats will find it impossible to distinguish our record,
our values, from theirs," said Clegg.

"But that myth has been utterly confounded. The opposite is true. The longer you
stand side-by-side with your opponents the easier your differences are to see."

He joked about UKIP, saying it was in a "lovely sweet spot in British politics"
where it was not challenged on policy. He said the party was now favoured by
"grumpy Tories".

"If you don't believe in gay marriage, you don''t like coalition, you don't like
compromise, [you think] I am going to vote for the real McCoy. I can see how
people might do that."

Cameron's drift towards defeat, Editorial, page 22

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A speech by Theresa May did little to quell speculation she may seek
the leadership

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Don't even ask: I won't change my tune;
ITALY'S OLD GUARD ARE AS MISGUIDED AS CEAUSESCU, SAYS BEPPE GRILLO AS THEY
CLAMOUR FOR AN ALLIANCE

BYLINE: John Follain

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 960 words


EVER the showman, Beppe Grillo, the former comedian who is breaking the mould of
Italian politics, sat down at a grand piano in his sitting room and fired off a
medley of blues and jazz. His shoeless feet beat out the rhythm on the marble
floor.

A virulent, often foulmouthed speaker at campaign rallies, Grillo was a
courteous and obliging host on Friday during an interview with The Sunday Times
at his home, an elegant villa set among cypress trees with a sweeping view of
the Ligurian coast.

He willingly played the piano when asked, ordered coffee from a maid and posed
for photographs with a plastic model of a human brain; he stabbed a toy knife
into it and tapped it with his knuckle. "This is the problem," said Grillo, 64,
with a straight face. "We have to change the brains of Italians."

The anti-establishment campaigner described his election triumph last month as
"a French Revolution without the guillotine" and compared his political foes to
Nicolae Ceausescu, the former Romanian dictator, facing the firing squad in
1989. He steadfastly refuses to break a deadlock that threatens to force new
elections as the conventional parties struggle to form a coalition. "When I say
it, I sound like a megalomaniac, but this is the end of an epoch and the birth
of a new one. These are the death rattles of an old political class that doesn't
want to go home," said Grillo, whose internetbased Five Star Movement is now
Italy's biggest party.

"The system is collapsing because of the state of the economy, not because of
Grillo, but they want to blame someone and so they blame me. They say I create
chaos, that we need 'governability'," he said.

His campaign tapped into widespread exasperation with corrupt politicians and
austerity policies to win more than 8m votes last month.

Pier Luigi Bersani, the leader of the centre-left Democratic party, which with
its coalition partners was the narrow winner of the election, has lambasted
Grillo for his refusal to forge an alliance that would enable Bersani to form a
government.

But Grillo will not budge.

"You have to see this from a psychiatric point of view - these are people who
have never taken responsibility for anything," he said.

I ask if he means such leading figures as Bersani, Mario Monti, the outgoing
prime minister, and Silvio Berlusconi, the former prime minister. "All of them,
all of them ... they are as stunned as Ceausescu was when he came out on the
terrace thinking thousands would embrace him and instead they kindly executed
him."

Grillo has said he would back reforms by a Bersani government only on a
case-by-case basis. But his refusal to back the government in an initial vote of
confidence is likely to kill it at birth.

Grillo bristled when asked a question set by La Repubblica newspaper on the
morning of our interview: why doesn't he carry out an online poll to find out if
people want him to give a Bersani government a chance? "I'm not interested in
what people think - I'm interested in those who gave us the vote and those in
the movement," he said.

"And we ran an election campaign with principles and promises that we intend to
keep. So if I made an alliance with anyone, the movement would dissolve itself
immediately because it would go against one of our pillars - that is, no to an
alliance with anyone."

He has gained three points in the polls since the election, with about 29% of
voters now backing him.

Grillo insisted he wants to change the entire political system and foster
"direct democracy", with referendums to propose new laws. He also wants all new
laws to be debated on the web three months before they go before parliament.

His priorities, he said, are electoral reform and legislation to clamp down on
political corruption and conflict of interest - the latter policy is aimed at
Berlusconi, a media tycoon - as well as a "citizens' allowance" of payments to
people who lose their jobs.

Asked whether he wanted Italy to abandon the euro - Grillo has called for a
referendum on the issue, spooking EU leaders and financial markets - he replied:
"Debt is our problem, not the euro. We're already a stagnant economy with a
thousand companies closing every day ... so for the next five years let's talk
about an alternative - the costs and benefits of going on like this or leaving
the euro."

Despite his success Grillo is keen to remain a political outsider.

Along with Bersani and Berlusconi he has been invited to meet Monti but he has
no plans to do so. "No, I'd be embarrassed.

What do we have to say to each other?" he laughed.

"It would be presumptuous for me to go and see Monti - I'm an actor; I'm not a
political leader. Monti is the official receiver; what can he say to me? His
therapy is completely at odds with our ideas." Asked whether he hoped to become
prime minister one day, Grillo exclaimed: "No, no, no, it's absolutely out of
the question. I don't have the cultural or linguistic abilities, I'm an actor
... I want to live quietly with my family."

Unprompted, he said he feared his family's peace would be destroyed by media
attention.

He singled out a cover story in L'Espresso magazine that said Walter Vezzoli,
his driver, was one of the administrators of 13 companies set up in Costa Rica,
a former tax haven.

"I'm on the cover but my driver lived there," he said, adding that he would sue
the magazine. "Vezzoli wanted to build this [eco-friendly] village - there is
nothing, just drawings on the internet."

Asked about the contrast between his personality at home and on the campaign
trail, Grillo said: "Yes, people who see me here are surprised I don't swear or
shout at them.

"In a piazza you have to reach people 200 or 300 yards away; you need physical
presence. The shouting and then the swear word that ends a phrase - that's a
technique."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Beppe Grillo says one of the pillars of his party is to refuse any
alliance
NICK CORNISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Brussels draws up curbs on bosses' pay;
After reining in bank bonuses, the EU is planning British-style powers over
executive rewards

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458 words


THE European Commission is preparing legislation that will give shareholders of
public companies the authority to block excessive executive pay deals.

The EC's plans have been inspired by last week's agreement to cap bankers'
bonuses across the European Union and the success of a referendum in Switzerland
that could lead to drastic cuts in pay for top managers.

EU law prohibits imposing salary limits, but the legislation being drafted by
Michel Barnier, the French commissioner in charge of internal market and
financial regulation, will give shareholders a mandatory say on executive pay.

The proposal is similar to the measures being introduced in Britain by Vince
Cable, the business secretary, which force companies to give investors a legally
binding vote on remuneration every three years.

"I am in favour of making shareholders more responsible on pay and I am
currently working on EU legislation that would give shareholders a mandatory say
on remuneration," said Barnier last week.

A spokeswoman for Barnier said the legislation would be ready later this year.
She added that the Swiss referendum was a boost to the commission's efforts to
curb corporate excess and that the EU must not be seen as lagging countries such
as Switzerland.

At present shareholders have only an advisory role - boards have the final say
on senior management salaries.

In Britain, the government is drafting a bill that, if it passes through
parliament in October, will impose a similar system of tough rules for
managerial salaries and exit payments. The popular discontent with corporate
largesse has put pressure on leaders in other European countries, such as
Germany and France, to consider similar steps.

Under the commission's proposal, agreed by EU ministers, bankers' bonuses will
be reduced to the level of their salary.

Support for the challenge to executive pay comes from the European parliament.

Sharon Bowles, the Liberal Democrat MEP who chairs the economic and monetary
affairs committee, said she wanted to see more restraint in executive pay across
the board: "While we cannot have wholesale interference in people's pay, it is
right to empower shareholders as the Swiss have done."

In Switzerland, the government was bitterly opposed to last week's referendum,
but the country's constitution allows for anyone to call a referendum if they
get enough signatures. The initiative against "fat cats," proposed by Thomas
Minder, head of a toothpaste firm, was backed by almost 70% of voters.

Critics including Economiesuisse, a pressure group, have argued that the
effective pay cap for top managers would send out a "negative signal for
Switzerland as a place for doing business". Similar arguments have been used by
the opponents of a move at EU level.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Strong euro scares off foreign investors

BYLINE: DAMIEN KIBERD

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1302 words


Predicting the value of currencies has always been a mug's game. Despite that,
an increasing number of people believe the euro will come close to parity with
sterling in the coming months and will remain there for some time. This would be
bad news for the Irish economy since a considerable part of our trade is still
with the sterling area.

There is a second problem: as long as the euro trades at such high levels the
attractiveness of direct foreign investment also diminishes. American investors
in Ireland face costs which in real terms are extremely challenging. Now Irish
wages - already high in American terms - will become even more expensive.

On paper, Ireland is a big trading nation. If you believe the figures - and I am
sceptical - global exports total about (EURO)190bn, counting both goods and
services. Any chance we have of emerging from our current woes depends on the
continuance of what politicians call our "export-led boom". So a strong euro is
a concern.

For many Irish manufacturers there is a sterling rate which can be tolerated and
managed. But there is a tipping point beyond which the viability of their
business cannot be sustained. As the euro/sterling rate rose towards £0.88 last
week, many well-run Irish businesses wondered how long they could take the pain.

Ireland's exports to the sterling area are worth (EURO)15.3bn a year.
Developments in the UK are not helping because they all point to prolonged
sterling weakness as the economy is flatlining.

Since George Osborne took office there has been only one quarter of real growth.
The Bank of England has approved several rounds of quantitative easing (QE)
totalling £375bn ((EURO)434bn) in an effort to get the economy moving.

In balance sheet terms the monetary authorities - effectively the Bank of
England - have almost quadrupled the scale of their operations. The idea is to
pump up real economic activity. But many banks took as much money as they could
and simply laid it off overnight at a fat profit.

Not too much of this "new money" ever got as far as real companies with real
workers and real products. And it is also stirring up very real fears of
inflation.

Under Osborne, growth in the UK has been as flat as a pancake. Growth for last
year is estimated retrospectively at 0.2%. Unfortunately growth in the final
quarter of 2012 is now estimated at minus 0.3%.

Some most unusual stratagems are being proposed to kick-start the moribund
economy. Last week, Paul Tucker, the deputy governor of the Bank of England,
told MPs that it might be necessary to offer negative interest rates to banks
placing cash on deposit, to encourage them to "push" money into the real economy
rather than laying it off risk-free with central banks.

This extraordinary proposal came just days after Moody's, a ratings agency, cut
the UK's credit rating from AAA to AAl. Why is the UK being downgraded? The
failure to stimulate economic activity is one reason obviously. But so is the
national debt which could grow to £1.6 trillion over the next four years.
Osborne preaches economic austerity but seems to practise the opposite. His
deficit is currently running at close to (EURO)130bn.

The problem for Ireland is that the "trade weighted index" of sterling has been
dropping like a stone, by 1% a month since last autumn. Ireland will find it
hard to cope if this continues for much longer. Osborne himself expects the
weakness of the UK economy to persist for several years.

For Irish businesses the euro is clearly too strong and needs to fall to a more
tolerable level. But how can the value of the euro be reduced? In recent days we
have had some help from Italy where, post-election, a prolonged opera buffa is
under way. Italy has a national debt of (EURO)2 trillion. Its creditors have
noted that the two central characters in this opera both have quite odd CVs.
One, Beppe Grillo, despite being barred from parliament, has become a force
through his Five Star Movement. It is described as a non-party and says it will
vote issue by issue. It garnered millions of votes despite having no policy
agenda. Its success may trigger a flight of capital, some voters believe. Grillo
is a comedian. He is also famous for organising two massive "V-parties" which
have been loosely translated as F*** Off parties.

Also returned with a thumping vote is Silvio Berlusconi, an active 76-year-old
pensioner and party animal. Despite incurring much abuse in the global media he
actually handed over the Italian economy in good shape before he was forced out
of office. As long as Grillo and Berlusconi remain at the centre of Italian
politics, the value of the euro will be under pressure.

Both politicians evince a strong antipathy to many aspects of the European
project. This fact alone could be enormously positive in reasserting the
sovereignty of European countries.

Even more importantly, they have succeeded in humiliating Mario Monti, the
former Goldman Sachs bureaucrat and unelected politician who was parachuted into
office just over a year ago in order to make Italy's government "more
respectable".

Monti's tally in last week's election was derisory, less than 10%. The Italians
appear to have rejected both austerity politics and stuffy professors at the
same time. Their decision is almost certainly correct.

There is every reason to believe that the technocrats sent in to police the
Greek economy in 2011 would prove just as popular as Monti and his fellow
bureaucrats if they were forced to put themselves up before the Greek
electorate.

Grillo is deeply hostile to the EU/eurozone and could seek to hold referendums
on various aspects of European policy before they are enacted. In particular
Grillo and his allies are opposed to the notion of new property taxes. In that
sense this comedian could act as an exemplar for those who would mobilise voters
in opposition to the measures imposed by the troika on Ireland in recent times.

If this causes the euro to weaken it will be a win for Irish-based business -
but not necessarily for our politicians.

PS: Reflecting the new tough approach taken by government in its dealings with
the unions, it would appear that the proposals contained in Croke Park II
represent a substantive change in the area of compulsory redundancy. The first
Croke Park deal excluded any notion of compulsory lay-offs. It also ruled out
any increase in "core pay". The trade unions had looked upon these commitments
as a victory. Now it appears the government is rolling back on what economist
Colm McCarthy has christened the "unwise promises".

Based on what is on the table right now, the government has effectively altered
the rules of engagement. More pay cuts can be achieved via the elimination of
special allowances and delaying the payment of increments. And an element of
compulsory redundancy can be brought forward through the introduction of
coercive changes in terms and conditions under which public servants work.

The government appears to be of the view that by imposing different rules
regarding hours of work and place of work, this may serve to force workers to
quit their jobs in the same way that compulsory redundancy would normally work.
For employers it is an unforeseen benefit.

The two Croke Park deals have brought astonishing gains for the employers. It
would appear that having achieved a four-year pay freeze in phase one they are
about to win another three years. A seven-year pay freeze? Surely this explains
why the domestic economy shows no signs of recovery, why consumption will grow
by at most 1% in the coming year. The EU/ECB has destroyed domestic demand. Its
aim was to restore competitiveness in an economy which was punching above its
weight. To some extent that has been achieved. But the collateral damage to the
domestic economy and to consumer spending has been ruinous.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EUROPE HITS THE SELF DESTRUCT BUTTON;
ESTABLISHED 1822

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 444 words


The best thing that can be said about the state of British politics is that it
is a long way from the farce that is Italy. The UK Independence party may have
shaken up the Eastleigh by-election but Nigel Farage is no Beppe Grillo, the
comedian who secured 26% of the vote in the Italian general election. The closer
that clowns-cum-politicians such as Mr Grillo get to power, not to mention
Silvio Berlusconi who secured a 30% share of the vote, the more people should be
concerned about the future of Europe. The market is built on increasingly shaky
political foundations. It could all go badly wrong.

European leaders, meanwhile, seem determined to advance the cause of sceptics in
Britain. Herman Van Rompuy, the European Council president, visited the City of
London last week to fire a shot across the bows of David Cameron and his
referendum plan.

There was, said Mr Van Rompuy, no need to change existing EU treaties, and no
appetite for it among European leaders. Britain's request to redefine its
relationship would be listened to politely, he said, while implying that nobody
should hold their breath for any significant repatriation of powers. EU leaders
do not get that being lectured to by an obscure Belgian politician elevated to
high office in Brussels sticks in the craw. They do not get that when a majority
of EU countries announce a deal to cap bankers' bonuses, a populist measure that
will have the perverse result of making the banks' salary bills less flexible
and will disadvantage the City of London, even banker-hating British voters can
sense something is amiss.

The bonus cap is not the EU's only delusion. Mr Van Rompuy and his colleagues
appear to think the euro crisis is over and, as he put it last week, that "it is
finally sinking in that the euro is here to stay". As an exercise in hubris, it
calls to mind the initial reaction of European leaders to the start of the
global financial crisis, which was that it was purely an Anglo-Saxon problem.
The euro crisis is far from over. The Italian election has proved, not only that
Italy is in political disarray, but that European voters are growing tired of
austerity. The threat is a collapse of the grand bargain that has persuaded
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, to commit her taxpayers to supporting the
expensive rescues that have held the euro together. German patience may be
wearing thin, compounded by unease over the European Central Bank's apparently
openended commitment to propping up the eurozone's sickly members. The more
voters reject austerity, the less willing Germany will be to act as the
eurozone's paymaster. The ranks of the eurosceptics are surely growing.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Secret £30m payout for terror suspects

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1001 words


TERRORIST suspects have received more than £30m of public money to settle
compensation claims against the intelligence services.

The government has been forced to make the secret payments to individuals
claiming to have been wrongly detained, or tortured, in order to avoid highly
sensitive information about the security services being exposed in court.

The scale of the payouts has never previously emerged but, in addition to at
least £30m already spent, tens of millions more are expected to be paid to
settle as many as 20 further pending claims.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Ken Clarke, the minister without
portfolio, warned that Britain was becoming an international magnet for such
claims because it had no way of putting up a defence without compromising
national security.

"At the moment we're not able to defend these cases; we just pay up to who knows
who.

We are paying out millions of pounds. There's a very real risk that some of this
money is finding its way to terrorists," he said.

Clarke is responsible for controversial new legislation to establish so-called
"secret courts" that would allow judges to hear both sides of the story in
lawsuits brought by terrorist suspects against MI5 and MI6.

Such cases cannot be heard in open court because the evidence would jeopardise
the safety of British spies and could compromise intelligence operations by UK
allies. Clarke argues that the new system would put an end to costly unjustified
claims.

"It's becoming popular, both with people who've been in Guantanamo Bay or
wherever, and the lawyers who represent them. Not surprisingly, people have
cottoned on to the fact that the British courts are the only place where you can
entertain this, so we are slowly getting an increasing number, and if we don't
do something about it, they're going to build up; we're going to pay out more
and more money, and the reputation of our security services is going to suffer,"
he said.

A final vote on his bill will take place in the Commons tomorrow. Clarke, whose
proposals have been attacked as an affront to the principle of open justice, is
expecting a significant rebellion.

"I've got exasperated," he said. "There isn't a country in the world that allows
this kind of evidence to be given in public."

He may be under pressure, but he does not look too ruffled. There is a distinct
whiff of tobacco in his office. Surely he has not been having a sly cigar?
"Well, um, if you think you can detect that someone has at some stage smoked in
here, I leave that to you. I, er, shall make inquiries as to how that could
conceivably have happened," he says, looking sheepish.

It is the morning after the Eastleigh by-election in which UKIP beat the Tories
into third place. Clarke, a notorious Europhile, is scathing, dismissing UKIP as
"a vehicle for protest votes".

He refuses to condemn the prime minister for once labelling UKIP supporters
"fruitcakes and closet racists". "I'm not sure my opinions are a million miles
away from David Cameron's," he says carefully.

Once his bill is out of the way, he will have more time to focus on the Europe
debate. He is spoiling for a fight, particularly over fears that Romanians and
Bulgarians will flood to Britain when visa restrictions are removed next year.

He believes that attempting to block freedom of movement within the EU would be
"utterly disastrous".

"We can't suddenly start singling out particular nationalities and saying they
can't come to work here," he says.

If he had his way, there would not be a referendum on Britain's membership of
the EU. "I personally don't like referendums, but I'm in a minority on that."

It is less than three weeks until the budget. With the economy still flatlining
and George Osborne's "omnishambles" this time last year far from forgotten, some
Tories wish Clarke was delivering it.

"I think at my age the PM has wisely decided that I should have an elder
statesman role rather than running a massive department. The idea of taking on
the Treasury again ... I think my wife would think I was being rather
eccentric," he said.

He describes himself as "one of Osborne's greatest fans", adding: "This is not
me just going into on-message mode. I do think he's played a blinder in saving
us from disaster as a country, but we've got a long way to go."

He takes comfort from the fact that the shadow chancellor is Ed Balls rather
than the former Labour chancellor Alistair Darling. "As long as Ed Balls is
shadow chancellor, I can't see the Labour party getting an overall majority. I
don't want to overpraise Alistair, but he is formidable."

Another MP he admires is Adam Afriyie, the multi-millionaire positioning himself
as a future Tory leader. "I worked with him in opposition. He's a very bright
guy. He's one of our more able members," he says.

Can he see Afriyie making it to the top? "Well! Talking much further in the
future, I think he's a very bright guy. I would not want to dampen his political
ambitions. He's a very able man and a very nice man."

Clarke is 72 and, despite a "gammy knee", in rude health. To the despair of his
staff, he considers himself too antiquated to cope with modern technology. "I
have a mobile phone, but I don't switch it on because people keep ringing you up
if you switch it on. I had a laptop but I packed it in the drawer at the last
election."

It is time to wrap up - he has got to drive to his constituency in
Nottinghamshire. His neighbouring MP is Anna Soubry, the junior health minister,
who last week suggested outlawing smoking in vehicles with children in the back.

Clarke says he is very fond of Soubry, but believes her idea would mean an
"extraordinarily intrusive state".

"The idea that you're going to have traffic cops going up and down trying to see
whether there's anyone in the car who's smoking, and there's a child in the same
car, is not something I think any police commissioner would give priority," he
says. "I'm leaving here to drive to Nottingham without any child in the car, and
I will undoubtedly smoke a cigar."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ken Clarke says he is too old for new technology. He has a mobile
phone, he says, but doesn't switch it on because then 'people keep ringing you
up'
JULIAN ANDREWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pass a law on EU vote now

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 507 words


How the Eastleigh loss played out for my party in the global media doesn't make
for attractive reading, writes Adam Afriyie.

One Reuters headline on Friday was: "Anti-EU party beats Conservatives in vote".

That sums up neatly how it must appear to the rest of the world: a simple choice
between in and out of the EU. We know that underneath, it is a bit more complex,
but people view the political classes from all parties as unwilling to confront
difficult issues.

And the fact that it appears as if we are ducking the difficult issues, time and
again, is a big problem for us.

We must start believing people when they say they want to be given a real
choice, before the next election, as to whether we stay in the EU. This means
seriously considering bringing forward into this parliament the legislation for
a future referendum.

Even if the legislation were voted down by the other parties, it would give a
clear signal of the Conservative party's intent to uphold people's right to have
a say on things they really care about.

We cannot deny the UKIP vote was brought about by a combination of problems from
job insecurity and financial pressure to a fear of further uncontrolled
immigration, underpinned by a lack of trust in mainstream political parties. We
must not do deals with UKIP or politicians from any party, but there is a deal
to be done with the voters of all parties.

Many people do feel we've let them down. We need to restore faith in the
Conservative party and show that we will be clear about what we are going to do,
without equivocation.

Our whole political class looks, sounds and feels out of touch with people. Our
political leaders all look and sound the same.

For me it is deeply disappointing that the excellent speech by our prime
minister promising an EU referendum appears to have been disbelieved.

But given the underlying level of mistrust in the political class to deliver on
their promises, perhaps this is not such a surprise.

We need a different kind of political climate where people believe we mean what
we say and that we'll actually deliver what we promise.

We still have a problem with unemployment and falling living standards. And
people feel their country is under threat from excessive levels of immigration
at a time when we can hardly fend for ourselves.

All these feelings are legitimate and this is why we must now calmly reflect and
consider the future.

The solution to our disappointment in Eastleigh is for our party to proceed in a
calm and orderly fashion and to focus on solving the underlying issues by
valuing our businesses' ability to create economic growth while severing the
link between work visas and automatic citizenship.

It's about integrity.

We need to tell people why we're doing things and we must be consistent. We need
a clear vision of what we want our country to be, a coherent and consistent
message and delivery of that message.

Politicians must be straightforward. If we're to build a new bright future for
Britain we need a different kind of politics.

Adam Afriyie is MP for Windsor

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIPPERED;
After the Tories' battering in Eastleigh, their chances of winning the 40 extra
seats they need in 2015 look slim. Jack Grimston and Isabel Oakeshott report

BYLINE: Jack Grimston; Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1654 words


Padding around in a towelling dressing gown outside her bungalow on Friday
morning, Maria Hutchings was the picture of dejection. With a decorated
Christmas tree still up in her conservatory - she has been too busy to take it
down - the defeated Conservative candidate in Eastleigh told a reporter: "I
don't want to talk about it. I don't want to speak to anyone."

A few hours earlier, grin fixed in place, she had been chaperoned out of the
count in Hampshire by George Hollingbery, a reliably Cameroon MP. He shielded
her with his arms, ensuring she did not answer a single question from the media
scrum.

During the campaign, which ended in a humiliating third place behind the UK
Independence Party (UKIP), stopping Hutchings talking had become something of a
Tory preoccupation thanks to her off-message views on issues such as education
and gay marriage.

The Liberal Democrats triumphed in Eastleigh despite a lacklustre candidate,
sexual harassment allegations against one of their former chief executives and
the former Eastleigh MP, Chris Huhne, facing jail for perverting the course of
justice.

UKIP was even more cock-ahoop, after increasing its share of the vote from 3.6%
in 2010 to 27.8% last week. "We'd have won if only the Tories hadn't split our
vote," crowed Nigel Farage, the party's leader.

Labour was licking its wounds after a dismal showing by a novice candidate, but
at least the party was never expected to do well.

Publicly, David Cameron's loyalists are putting on a brave face. Clutching at
straws, Sarah Newton, a deputy Tory chairman, described the result as "good for
the coalition - that the coalition has kept a seat". Grant Shapps, the chairman,
insisted the result was "not terribly surprising", adding: "It is not like our
vote collapsed."

Shapps has good reason to smile through the pain. He is responsible for the
party's socalled 40-40 strategy for the 2015 general election, under which it is
targeting 40 seats it must win and 40 it must hold to gain a working majority.
Eastleigh is one of 20 Lib Dem constituencies he is aiming for.

As the political circus leaves Eastleigh, what is left of that strategy, and how
sure can Cameron be that he will still be in his job when the biggest test comes
in two years' time? THE key to victory may lie in technology. For several
months, four brainboxes have been quietly creating a database - the most
sophisticated ever of voter details for use in future by-election and general
election campaigns.

Known as Metis, after the Greek goddess of wise counsel, and stored on the
Cloud, an internet storage service, it will amass data from public records,
pollsters, fundraisers and an army of political activists and volunteers in
every constituency.

It will also trawl social networking sites for information on voters' habits and
preferences.

"Facebook, Twitter - if it's in the public domain, it's not off limits," says
Jag Singh, a digital whizz-kid who has worked on two US presidential elections
and is a co-founder of Metis.

Together with his colleagues - Matthew Elliott, who ran the successful NOtoAV
campaign against alternative voting in 2011 and founded the Taxpayers' Alliance
pressure group; Paul Staines, creator of the Guido Fawkes political website; and
Andrew Whitehurst, a digital campaigning expert - Singh hopes the database will
contain details of as many as 20m voters by 2015.

By contrast, the Tories currently use a database of just 300,000 names,
containing mostly email addresses.

This new weapon could make its founders a fortune - in crucial swing states in
the last US presidential election, such data sold for $250 a name.

It will enable political parties to run highly targeted campaigns, focusing on
individual voters whose support is vital to win key seats. More importantly, it
will spare householders the sort of unwelcome attention that was lavished on
them by overenthusiastic (or desperate) campaigners in Eastleigh.

Unlike Nick Clegg's party, which knew which addresses contained actual or
potential Lib Dem voters because of their strong local councillor base, the
Conservatives were forced to adopt a scattergun approach, wasting time and
resources and perhaps alienating people by knocking on every door in streets
where there were no Tory voters.

Metis's creators believe this seriously hurt the party's campaign. "One
unfortunate person was called 18 times on election day," says Singh.

"It's not enough for the party to raise the money to buy a huge consumer
database ... or buy email lists to spam people. An Obama-style database takes
years to build.

"Volunteers need to canvass by telephone or door to door and all the information
they gather needs to be fed back continually into the database to refine it, to
ensure campaign resources are being used as effectively as possible."

The team behind Metis have strong links to the Conservatives, but the data they
are collating will be available to anyone with deep enough pockets. Armed with
such information, the Tories might actually win Eastleigh - and others on its
list - in 2015.

Yet for many Tory MPs, technology alone is not the solution. Some believe the
party's unwillingness to let Hutchings speak her mind symbolised a confusion at
the heart of the party's electoral strategy: it was happy to pick a candidate
with populist views but scared about letting her express them.

This, they believe, could stand in the way of winning many of the aspirational,
working-class seats - inhabited by the proverbial "white van man" - that feature
in Shapps's list.

The lure of UKIP is both reflecting and shaping the complaints of Tory
malcontents. They gripe about a remote leadership anxious to put the party's
Thatcherite past behind it and worried about annoying its coalition partners,
and which needlessly alienates natural supporters over immigration, gay marriage
and taxes while harping on about metropolitan obsessions such as gay marriage.

Eleanor Laing, the MP for Epping Forest, said: "The leadership of the party
doesn't appear to be in tune with the hopes and fears of most people in most
parts of the country.

"A vote for UKIP says, 'Pay attention to me, don't forget what we think, don't
forget what matters to us.' " Some of Laing's Tory colleagues believe the party
should learn from the clarity of the message put out by UKIP, once dismissed by
Cameron as "a bunch of fruitcakes, and loonies and closet racists". Michael
Fabricant, Tory MP for Lichfield and a vice-chairman of the party, who spent
three weeks playing a round-the-clock role in the by-election, said: "If Nigel
Farage is right about one thing, it is that UKIP have succeeded in connecting
with the Eastleigh electorate.

"The Conservative party needs to adopt a fresh voice, one of clarity, one of
single purpose that would enable it to connect, because we sometimes present
confused messages and there needs to be more self-control."

Another senior MP complained the party leadership was "stuck in a Blairite
timewarp, obsessed with their head-office narratives and messages, ignoring the
fact that the party is mouldering away".

Eastleigh may yet prove a typical by-election blip. Yet many Tory MPs cannot
fathom how they can win an overall majority in 2015 - after failing to do so in
2010 amid a financial crisis, when voters were weary of Labour after 13 years of
Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

Behind their hands, a growing number are beginning to talk of Cameron as a
"multiple loser". For now, the attacks are off the record. But the muttering is
getting louder.

One voice nobody outside Cameron's tight-knit inner circle has heard in recent
weeks is that of Lynton Crosby, the man charged with running the 2015 campaign.

Demonstrating the sort of vanishing skills favoured by the Tories' other
election strategist, George Osborne, the chancellor, Crosby was neither seen nor
heard during the by-election campaign. Word is the tough-talking Australian
election guru didn't want anything to do with a fight he knew was hopeless from
the start.

"Lynton has been rightly exonerated," said one insider. "After all, he's only
just come on board. No 10 people blame CCHQ [Conservative Campaign Headquarters]
for not being prepared. CCHQ people blame No 10 for not allowing them to
prepare."

Apparently, while the party had more than a year to get ready for the
possibility Huhne would resign after he was charged with perverting the course
of justice, the leadership feared it would look "too opportunistic" and might
"unsettle the coalition" if they started campaigning in Eastleigh before he
quit.

Either way, nobody is calling for heads to roll. Cameron's growing army of
backbench critics had already factored in defeat in Eastleigh, though they had
expected to be in second rather than third place.

For the next few weeks, all eyes will switch to Osborne. Any slip-ups in the
budget, due on March 20, could prompt Conservative calls for the chancellor to
be replaced, or to quit his election planning role to concentrate on the day
job. Tory MPs are in a black and unforgiving mood. Then on May 2 come the local
elections.

MEANWHILE, the leadership is considering one more concession on Europe to reduce
UKIP's appeal. Two groups of Tory MPs, led by the backbenchers John Baron and
Bill Cash, plan to step up a campaign to push Cameron into introducing
legislation before the election to put the promised 2017 EU membership
referendum on the statute book.

The prime minister has not closed off the idea, even though the chances of Lib
Dem or Labour support for such a bill might be remote.

This weekend a group of women Tory MPs, including Claire Perry, the member for
Devizes, sent Hutchings a bouquet of flowers in sympathy at her bruising defeat.
Cameron will need to come up with something much more dramatic to appease his
own troops.

Additional reporting: Jake Kendall-Ashton. UKIP's purple patch is here to stay,
PM; Adam Boulton, page 25

'' ONE UNLUCKY PERSON WAS CALLED 18 TIMES ON ELECTION DAY

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage's party pushed David Cameron's Conservatives into third
place

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EUROPE HITS THE SELF-DESTRUCT BUT TON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 788 words


The best thing that can be said about the state of British politics is that it
is a long way from the farce that is Italy. The UK Independence party (UKIP),
with no seats yet in parliament, may have shaken up the Eastleigh byelection but
Nigel Farage is no Beppe Grillo, the comedian who secured 26% of the vote in the
Italian general election.

British politicians should worry more about Rome than Eastleigh. The closer that
clownscum-politicians such as Mr Grillo get to power, not to mention Silvio
Berlusconi, who secured a 30% share of the vote, the more we should be concerned
about the future of Europe. The market on which Britain depends for a large but
dwindling proportion of its trade is built on increasingly shaky political
foundations. It could all go badly wrong.

European leaders, meanwhile, seem determined to advance the cause of sceptics in
Britain. Herman Van Rompuy, the European Council president, visited the City of
London last week to fire a shot across the bows of the prime minister and his
referendum plan. He said: "How do you convince a room full of people, when you
keep your hand on the door handle? How to encourage a friend to change, if your
eyes are searching for your coat?" There was, said Mr Van Rompuy, no need to
change existing EU treaties, and no appetite for it among European leaders.
Britain's request to redefine its relationship would be listened to politely, he
said, while implying that we should not hold our breath for any significant
repatriation of powers.

EU leaders simply do not get it. They do not get that being lectured to by an
obscure Belgian politician elevated to high office in Brussels sticks in the
craw. The fact that we have provided an obscure politician of our own, Baroness
Ashton, European Commission vice-president and "high representative" for foreign
affairs, is no comfort.

They do not get that when a majority of EU countries announce a deal to cap
bankers' bonuses, a populist measure that will have the perverse result of
making the banks' salary bills less flexible and will disadvantage the City of
London, even banker-hating British voters can sense something is amiss.

The bonus cap, if the government is unsuccessful in ameliorating its effects,
will provide a powerful incentive for banks to relocate from Britain, and indeed
Europe. The financial services sector, for all its recent sins, is one of the
strengths of the British economy. Boris Johnson, the London mayor, put it well
when he said: "People will wonder why we stay in the EU if it persists in such
transparently selfdefeating policies."

The bonus cap is not the EU's only delusion. Mr Van Rompuy and his colleagues
appear to think that the euro crisis is over and, as he put it last week, that
"it is finally sinking in that the euro is here to stay". As an exercise in
hubris, it calls to mind the initial reaction of European leaders to the start
of the global financial crisis, which was that it was an Anglo-Saxon problem
that would have little impact on them. Instead, the eurozone quickly found
itself at the heart of the crisis.

Make no mistake, the euro crisis is far from over. The Italian election has
proved, not only that Italy is in political disarray, but that European voters
are growing tired of austerity. They have demonstrated it in Greece, France and
now, most dramatically, in Italy. The vote was not just against austerity - Mr
Grillo's campaign targeted corruption in Italian politics - but the effect will
be the same. Mario Monti, the unelected leader who had steered Italy away from
the economic abyss over the past year or so, got just 10% of the vote.

For Europe, the threat is a collapse of the grand bargain that has persuaded
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, to commit her taxpayers to supporting the
expensive rescues that have held the euro together. German patience, however,
may be wearing thin, compounded by unease over the European Central Bank's
apparently open-ended commitment to propping up the eurozone's sickly members.
The more voters reject austerity, the less willing Germany will be to act as the
eurozone's paymaster.

Our patience is wearing thin, too. European politicians have failed to take
advantage of the breathing space offered by calmer markets to introduce the
reforms needed to put the EU on a stronger footing. The weather forecast for
Europe is prolonged depression. At the same time, the EU appears determined, for
no good reason, to undermine Britain, and to offer little hope that Mr Cameron's
promised renegotiation will come to anything. UKIP stole the headlines with its
performance in Eastleigh. But the EU is providing us with good reason to worry
about what is going on in Europe. We should all be Eurosceptics now.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP's purple patch is here to stay, PM

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1399 words


It is a little publicised irony that the UK Independence party's London
headquarters are in Europe House, offices it shares with the European Commission
and parliament. The grand building in Smith Square was also once Margaret
Thatcher's Conservative Central Office. Winning seats in the European parliament
means political funding from Brussels, so Nigel Farage and his team squeeze in
alongside the Greens, making the best of Euro-patronage.

The strong second-place finish by UKIP in the Eastleigh by-election humiliated
the "natural parties of government" and proved that in an age of multi-party
politics UKIP is a force to be reckoned with.

In a more relaxed life Farage could have stood for the Beer, Baccy and Crumpet
party, like one of the 10 candidates who lost their deposit in Eastleigh. He
spends much of his time outside Europe House in the congenial surroundings of
the "MOG", the nearby Marquis of Granby pub.

Not for much longer. Even before its best parliamentary by-election result, UKIP
had decided to get serious. Farage may linger in Westminster for his social
life, but the party organisation will soon be moving into bigger offices off
Bond Street, where half a dozen paid staff will work alongside the much greater
number of volunteers and interns clamouring to join a burgeoning movement.

UKIP has split the role of executive chairman by appointing Will Gilpin, a
former RAF fighter pilot and IT expert, as its first chief executive. The ad man
Steve Crowther remains chairman, and Stuart Wheeler is treasurer. So far Wheeler
has handed over less than a tenth of the £5m he donated to the Tory party before
his defection. But his stewardship has ensured UKIP is in the black, helped by
£30 subscriptions from the thousand or so new members who are joining each
month.

Professionalism doesn't stop at head office. UKIP now has its own campaigns
chief to match the likes of Lord Rennard or Lynton Crosby, in the more
down-toearth Lisa Duffy. She is given much of the credit for the party's recent
dramatic second-place finishes in the Labour stronghold of Rotherham and last
week in Eastleigh. But where five people volunteered to canvass on polling day
in Rotherham last November, UKIP says 50 turned up at Eastleigh. What's more,
they looked normal.

In the political fashion parade down the front paths of Eastleigh, Labour's
sharp-suited canvassers were head office on a site visit. The Conservatives
fielded either old buffers or young hotties, slumming it for the experience.
Only the Liberal Democrats and UKIP merged into the background.

I didn't spot any Major Ronald Voletrousers ret'd in UKIP's ranks; instead there
were working women such as their candidate, Diane James. By common consent she
was the best candidate. Many observed that she looked and spoke like someone
you'd expect from the Tories, while the real Conservative, the chaotic Maria
Hutchings, spent much of the campaign hiding from public attention. Diane James
has been associated with UKIP for some years, but she's only recently been
prepared to advertise her support, preferring instead to identify herself before
now as an independent. UKIP argues that she is like many of the 11,571 people
who voted for her, ready at last to stand up and say: "It's OK to back UKIP."
The party believes it has momentum with it. Farage now talks not about the
European parliament elections in June 2014 but of gains in this May's local
elections.

The Lib Dem victors in Eastleigh can of course put a brave face on it. After the
shaming of Chris Huhne and Rennard, this weekend the pressure is off Nick Clegg.
A case can be made that the party can survive a slump in its national share of
the vote provided it fights the next general election as it did in Eastleigh.
The so-called "hundred byelections strategy" in 2015 will mean digging into the
seats and targets where it is either incumbent or has a strong council base
while letting more than 400 other constituencies go hang. This is the reason why
Clegg had no option but to block new constituency boundaries supported by the
Conservatives, which would have torn up Lib Dem roots in their heartlands.

Clegg's next big test will come in May: to halt the devastating erosion of this
councillor base, which set in with the formation of the coalition. Nearly one in
two of the people who voted for Huhne in 2010 failed to turn out for his
successor last week. The Lib Dem share of the vote was down some 14.4 percentage
points, fractionally more than the Conservative slump (13.9 points). And almost
all of it went straight to UKIP, rather exposing the dirty little secret that
before their entry into government, a sizeable chunk of Lib Dem support was from
protest voters considerably more unliberal and Eurosceptic than party orthodoxy.

Grant Shapps, still a somewhat implausible Tory party chairman for all his
energy, dismissed Eastleigh as an irrelevant mid-term protest, pointing out that
Labour did badly as well and arguing that either Cameron or Miliband would be
the next prime minister. But Labour actually held its paltry 10% of the vote.
And if Labour holds nationally, Cameron can only go after Lib Dem seats to gain
the much-coveted overall majority demanded of him by his rancorous MPs.

To achieve outright victory, the Conservatives need to gain 20 constituencies;
Eastleigh may be 55th on the overall target list, but with no Labour prizes,
it's the 15th Lib Dem seat Cameron needs. Having lost Eastleigh to the LibDems
following the death of Stephen Milligan in 1994, the Tories would have regained
the seat in 1997, were it not for votes lost to Sir James Goldmith''s Referendum
party. Today UKIP is much stronger than that.

UKIP could turn out to be a bubble that bursts, but not yet. The political diary
seems designed to keep it alive. Local elections this year, Europeans next and
then Cameron's Faustian pact with his party on a referendum, which guarantees
that Europe will be a live issue in the 2015 election whatever its outcome.
Cameron has fed the Eurosceptic tiger without taming it. In their hearts, many
of his MPs and potential supporters want him to back a no vote - a U-turn that
would immediately destroy the coalition government.

Farage's party already occupies the 'no' space, where he has the leisure to
refine and broaden his manifesto. In Eastleigh, UKIP tried to exploit concern
about immigration by insisting that it is impossible for the UK to control it so
long as we are in the EU. While he and some activists may see UKIP as a vehicle
for their own political office, many more at the heart of the party and edging
towards it would settle for being the force that shifted the Conservative party
decisively against membership of the EU.

Even worse for the prime minister, Labour can sit it out. There is no demand
among potential Labour voters for Miliband to match the Conservative or UKIP
offer. In Eastleigh about a fifth of jobs are dependent on the construction
sector, where competition is fierce. In 2004 neighbouring Southampton absorbed
some 15,000 immigrants from Poland and elsewhere.

Yet according to Labour's rare MP in the area, John Denham, his supporters are
looking for no more than a pledge to consider the issue. As for the EU
referendum, Miliband will find it easy to reject invitations to tie up the first
term of a potential prime ministership on a matter that is not a priority for
his supporters.

Shapps's claim that No 10 is still a Dave v Ed affair overlooks one of the most
significant historical trends in British politics - this is no longer a
two-party state. For 60 years, more and more voters have opted for a party other
than Labour or the Conservatives. That fringe vote was just 3% in the 1950s but
had risen to more than a third at the last general election, on a scale with the
share for each of the two "main" parties. Both the Lib Dems and the Scottish
Nationalists are now in government. The leader of the Green party became an MP.

In Eastleigh well over half the voters preferred a shade of politics other than
red or blue. UKIP purple is likely to be more than this season's colour. With
the Tories split on Europe, and the voters disillusioned with conventional
politics, the potential is there for Farage and his followers to move from
disruptive force to breakthrough.

Adam Boulton is political editor of Sky News

'I DIDN'T SPOT ANY MAJOR RONALD VOLETROUSERS RET'D IN UKIP'S RANKS'

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Clampdown on NHS care for migrants;
PM pitches for populist vote ; Migrants face welfare and housing curbs

BYLINE: Marie Woolf, Isabel Oakeshott ; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1322 words


DAVID CAMERON is preparing to limit the access of immigrants to free healthcare
amid concerns that the NHS is being abused by new arrivals and turned into a
"global health service".

The government clampdown will be seen as a response to a surge in support for
UKIP at the Eastleigh by-election and accusations by Tory MPs that Cameron has
failed to get a grip on immigration and the burgeoning cost of new arrivals. In
a "profound" shake-up of access to healthcare, ministers are considering making
immigrants wait for up to a year before being able to seek hospital care
including operations but excluding emergency and ante-natal care.

The proposals are being drawn up by Cameron, Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary,
Iain Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary, and Mark Harper, the
immigration minister.

The NHS measures are part of a fightback by the prime minister designed to
regain the initiative by highlighting the government's record on immigration,
welfare reform and criminal justice.

In a direct response to criticism that his party failed to connect with voters
in its dismal performance at last week's poll in Eastleigh, Cameron has made it
clear he is determined to "address the things people care about". He has made a
new pledge to occupy "the common ground of politics".

"We are engaged in a battle for Britain's future ... It is a battle we will only
win if we reject the cynicism, the political calculation and the easy ways out,
and stick to the course we are on," he said last night.

In a further attempt to head off a looming Eurosceptic backlash after UKIP's
success, Cameron is considering introducing a law promising a post-election
referendum on Britain's EU membership.

At the same time, however, he is insisting the party must avoid a lurch to the
right. Cameron will maintain the ringfence protecting the NHS from spending cuts
and refuse to yield to demands from the Thatcherite right to end its exemption.

The plan to reform immigrants' access to the health service is based on changing
the habitual residency test, which gives access to services to anyone legally
living here with the UK as their permanent residence.

Immigrants could have to wait six months or even a year before being granted the
right to habitual residency and therefore hospital care.

Ministers are also looking at Continued on page 2 ?? W W IN THIS SECTION ?? W W
Secret £30m payout for terror suspects PAGE 14 Ukippered FOCUS, PAGE 19 Europe
hits the self-destruct button EDITORIAL, PAGE 24

? ? Continued from page 1 tighter restrictions on access to healthcare for
short-term visitors, students and others on temporary visas. They are also
looking at whether migrants should have to make contributions, possibly through
national insurance, before using hospitals.

The tightening of healthcare entitlements will be allied to a campaign against
health tourism by visitors to the UK and those who have no right to free
hospital care, including failed asylum seekers and illegal immigrants.

Hospitals will be pushed to enforce the rules more stringently.

A recent freedom of information request found that a third of trusts were not
asking patients if they were habitually resident in the UK and therefore
eligible for care.

The review is part of a drive to restrict immigrants' access to benefits,
council homes and public services. It follows forecasts that up to 50,000 people
from Romania and Bulgaria may come to Britain annually after limits on them
working here are lifted next year.

Sources close to Hunt said the talks were at an early stage but there was
concern that the NHS, set up to provide free healthcare for Britons, was being
exploited by "more and more" people from overseas, putting strain on services.

"The National Health Service is becoming the global health service," said a
source. "We are looking at the way in which services are open to people.

"You have to be ordinarily resident to access healthcare. We have to have a look
at that and whether there is a prospect of changing that. We are looking in a
bit more detail at the contributions you need to be entitled to free
healthcare."

Frank Field, Labour MP for Birkenhead, and Nicholas Soames, Conservative MP for
Mid Sussex, who co-chair the cross-party group on balanced migration, have
written to Hunt proposing that an entitlement card granting access to primary
and or secondary care in the NHS should be granted to those who are ordinarily
resident in the UK.

The letter urges Hunt to "get this situation dealt with very soon" to avoid a
public backlash.

"As the financial pressures on the NHS intensify, access to primary care that is
open to the whole world will stretch public tolerance to the limit," the letter
warns.

Cameron is under intense pressure from his own members following the
Conservatives' showing at Eastleigh. The party came third behind the Liberal
Democrats and UKIP, raising serious questions over its strategy in the run-up to
the 2015 election.

There are fears that the party may be unable to attract topflight candidates for
all its target seats, with evidence that some constituencies are already
struggling. Party officials have had to re-advertise for candidates in at least
four of the 40 marginal constituencies it is thought to be targeting.

Although there is no immediate threat to the leadership, backbenchers are
increasingly fractious, with many fearing the chances of winning an overall
majority in 2015 are rapidly slipping away.

In an article for The Sunday Times today, Adam Afriyie, a future party
leadership hopeful, claims the Tories appear to be "ducking the difficult
issues, time and again", a weakness he describes as a "major problem".

"Many people do feel we've let them down," he writes. He highlights immigration
as a key concern, claiming people feel the number of arrivals is "excessive ...
at a time when we can hardly fend for ourselves".

No 10 is also considering whether to bring in legislation before the next
election to promise an in-out referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. The
prime minister has indicated to backbenchers he is willing to discuss it.

Over coming weeks, two groups of Tory MPs - led by John Baron and Bill Cash -
are planning to step up calls for Cameron to introduce the law early to prove
the party has no intention of reneging on a pledge to hold a vote if it forms
the next government.

In his landmark Europe speech in January, the prime minister promised to draft
legislation before the election, but not to pass it until afterwards. The vote
would then be held by the end of 2017, after a series of negotiations to
overhaul Britain's membership terms.

Those who support earlier legislation, who include Afriyie, believe it could
help the Tories by forcing Labour and the Liberal Democrats to say openly
whether they support a referendum.

Cameron is said to be worried the bill would be defeated and would also prefer
to go into the election with the Conservatives as the only party openly
supporting an in-out vote.

The prime minister may draw some consolation from a YouGov poll for today's
Sunday Times suggesting taunts from UKIP and others that he is not a genuine
Conservative are failing to impress his supporters, of whom 77% believe he is
genuinely one of them.

This drops to 62% of Tory voters from 2010, suggesting that at least some who
may desert the party in the next election believe he has strayed from true
Conservatism.

Meanwhile, the government will tomorrow claim it has helped save families
struggling with the cost of mortgages as much as £1,000 a year as a result of a
scheme brought in last summer.

Ministers will highlight that the cost of credit has fallen more than in other
advanced economies since a lending scheme was launched in June. It has led to a
sharp fall in mortgage rates, with the cost of new deals falling as much as £83
a month.

Bringing an end to something-for-nothing welfare, Frank Field, News Review, page
4

? ? Continued from page [...]

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Pass a law on EU vote now

BYLINE: Adam Afriyie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 464 words


How the Eastleigh loss played out for my party in the global media doesn't make
for attractive reading, writes Adam Afriyie.

One Reuters headline was: "Anti-EU party beats Conservatives in vote".

That sums up neatly how it must appear to the rest of the world: a simple choice
between in and out of the EU. We know that underneath, it is a bit more complex,
but people view the political classes from all parties as unwilling to confront
difficult issues.

And the fact that it appears as if we are ducking the difficult issues, time and
again, is a big problem for us.

We must start believing people when they say they want to be given a real choice
- before the next election - as to whether we stay in the EU. This means
seriously considering bringing forward into this parliament the legislation for
a future referendum.

Even if the legislation were voted down by the other parties, it would give a
clear signal of the Conservatives' intent to uphold people's right to have a say
on things they really care about.

We cannot deny the UKIP vote was brought about by a combination of problems from
job insecurity and financial pressure to a fear of further uncontrolled
immigration, underpinned by a lack of trust in mainstream political parties. We
must not do deals with UKIP or politicians from any party, but there is a deal
to be done with the voters of all parties.

Many people do feel we've let them down. We need to restore faith in the
Conservative party and show that we will be clear about what we are going to do.

For me it is deeply disappointing that the excellent speech by our prime
minister promising a referendum appears to have been disbelieved.

But given the underlying level of mistrust in the political class to deliver on
their promises, perhaps this is not such a surprise.

We need a different climate where people believe we mean what we say and that
we'll deliver what we promise.

We still have a problem with unemployment and falling living standards. And
people feel their country is under threat from excessive levels of immigration
at a time when we can hardly fend for ourselves.

All these feelings are legitimate and this is why we must calmly reflect and
consider the future.

The solution to our disappointment in Eastleigh is for our party to focus on
solving the underlying issues by valuing our businesses' ability to create
economic growth while severing the link between work visas and automatic
citizenship.

It's about integrity.

We need to tell people why we're doing things and we must be consistent. We need
a clear vision of what we want our country to be, a consistent message and
delivery of that message.

Politicians must be straightforward. If we're to build a bright future for
Britain we need a different kind of politics.

Adam Afriyie is MP for Windsor

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Afriyie: a real choice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

UKIPPERED;
After the Tories' battering in Eastleigh, their chances of winning the 40 extra
seats they need in 2015 look slim. Jack Grimston and Isabel Oakeshott report

BYLINE: Jack Grimston ; Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1651 words


Padding around in a towelling dressing gown outside her bungalow last Friday
morning, Maria Hutchings was the picture of dejection. With a decorated
Christmas tree still up in her conservatory - she has been too busy to take it
down - the defeated Conservative candidate in Eastleigh told a reporter: "I
don't want to talk about it. I don't want to speak to anyone."

A few hours earlier, grin fixed in place, she had been chaperoned out of the
count in Hampshire by George Hollingbery, a reliably Cameroon MP. He shielded
her with his arms, ensuring she did not answer a single question from the media
scrum.

During the campaign, which ended in a humiliating third place behind the UK
Independence Party (UKIP), stopping Hutchings talking had become something of a
Tory preoccupation, thanks to her off-message views on issues such as education
and gay marriage.

The Liberal Democrats triumphed in Eastleigh despite a lacklustre candidate,
sexual harassment allegations against one of their former chief executives and
the former Eastleigh MP, Chris Huhne, facing jail for perverting the course of
justice.

UKIP was even more cock-ahoop, after increasing its share of the vote from 3.6%
in 2010 to 27.8% last week. "We'd have won if only the Tories hadn't split our
vote," crowed Nigel Farage, the party's leader.

Labour was licking its wounds after a poor showing by a novice candidate, the
comedy writer John O'Farrell. Its strategists argue Eastleigh was not a priority
seat and that, like the Tories, the party suffered from the Lib Dems' entrenched
control of local politics. Unlike the Tories, however, Labour had never been
expected to do well there.

Publicly, David Cameron's loyalists are putting on a brave face. Clutching at
straws, Sarah Newton, a deputy Tory chairman, described the result as "good for
the coalition - that the coalition has kept a seat". Grant Shapps, the chairman,
insisted it was "not terribly surprising", adding: "It is not like our vote
collapsed."

Shapps has good reason to smile through the pain. He is responsible for the
party's socalled 40-40 strategy for the 2015 general election, under which it is
targeting 40 seats it must win and 40 it must hold to gain a working majority.
Eastleigh is one of 20 Lib Dem constituencies he is aiming for.

As the political circus leaves Eastleigh, what is left of that strategy, and how
sure can Cameron be that he will still be in his job when the biggest test comes
in two years' time? THE key to victory may lie in technology. For several
months, four brainboxes have been quietly creating the most sophisticated ever
database of voter details for use in future by-election and general election
campaigns.

Known as Metis, after the Greek goddess of wise counsel, and stored on the
Cloud, an internet storage service, it will amass data from public records,
pollsters, fundraisers and political activists and volunteers in every
constituency. It will also trawl social networking sites for information on
voters' habits and preferences.

"Facebook, Twitter - if it's in the public domain, it's not off limits," says
Jag Singh, a digital whizz-kid who has worked on two US presidential elections
and is a co-founder of Metis.

Together with his colleagues - Matthew Elliott, who ran the successful NOtoAV
campaign against alternative voting in 2011 and founded the Taxpayers' Alliance
pressure group; Paul Staines, creator of the Guido Fawkes political website; and
Andrew Whitehurst, a digital campaigning expert - Singh hopes the database will
contain details of as many as 20m voters by 2015.

By contrast, the Tories currently use a database of just 300,000 names, mostly
with only email addresses. Some on the list even turned out to be dead. Metis's
founders have links to the Tories but their services will be offered to all
parties. The new weapon could make its founders a fortune - in swing states in
the last US presidential election, such data sold for $250 a name.

It will enable parties to run campaigns tightly focusing on individual voters in
key seats. It will spare householders the unwelcome attention that was lavished
on them by overenthusiastic (or desperate) campaigners in Eastleigh.

Unlike Nick Clegg's party, which knew which addresses contained actual or
potential Lib Dem voters because of their strong local council base, the
Conservatives had to adopt a scattergun approach, wasting time knocking on every
door in streets where there were no Tory voters.

Metis's creators believe this seriously hurt the party's campaign. "One
unfortunate person was called 18 times on election day," says Singh.

"It's not enough for the party to raise the money to buy a huge consumer
database ... or buy email lists to spam people. An Obama-style database takes
years to build."

Yet for many Tory MPs, technology alone is not the solution. Some believe the
party's unwillingness to let Hutchings speak her mind symbolised a confusion at
the heart of the party's electoral strategy: it was happy to pick a candidate
with populist views but scared about letting her express them.

This, they believe, could stand in the way of winning many of the white
workingclass seats. These tend to include large numbers of residents working for
private companies and with relatively low levels of education, often classified
as the proverbial "white van man".

The lure of UKIP is both reflecting and shaping the complaints of Tory
malcontents. They gripe about a remote leadership anxious to put the party's
Thatcherite past behind it and worried about annoying its coalition partners,
which needlessly alienates natural supporters over immigration and taxes while
harping on metropolitan obsessions such as gay marriage.

Eleanor Laing, the MP for Epping Forest, said: "The leadership of the party
doesn't appear to be in tune with the hopes and fears of most people in most
parts of the country.

"A vote for UKIP says, 'Pay attention to me, don't forget what we think, don't
forget what matters to us.' " Some of Laing's colleagues believe the party
should learn from the clarity of the message put out by UKIP, once dismissed by
Cameron as "a bunch of fruitcakes, and loonies and closet racists".

Michael Fabricant, Tory MP for Lichfield and a party vicechairman, who spent
three weeks working on the by-election round the clock, said: "If Nigel Farage
is right about one thing, it is that UKIP have succeeded in connecting with the
Eastleigh electorate.

"The Conservative party needs to adopt a fresh voice, one of clarity, one of
single purpose that would enable it to connect, because we sometimes present
confused messages and there needs to be more self-control."

Graham Brady, head of the backbench 1922 Committee, said: "It would be unwise to
ignore this result. It signals a real disaffection with all the main parties and
the growth of an anti-politics attitude that has to be addressed."

Another senior MP complained the party leadership was "stuck in a Blairite
timewarp, obsessed with their head-office narratives and messages, ignoring the
fact that the party is mouldering away".

Eastleigh may yet prove a typical by-election blip. Yet many Tory MPs cannot
fathom how they can win an overall majority in 2015 - after failing to do so in
2010 amid a financial crisis, when voters were weary of Labour after 13 years of
Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

Behind their hands, a growing number are beginning to talk of Cameron as a
"multiple loser". For now, the attacks are off the record. But the muttering is
getting louder.

One voice nobody outside Cameron's tight-knit inner circle has heard in recent
weeks is that of Lynton Crosby, the man charged with running the 2015 campaign.

Demonstrating the sort of vanishing skills favoured by the Tories' other
election strategist, George Osborne, the chancellor, Crosby was neither seen nor
heard during the by-election campaign. Word is the tough-talking Australian
election guru didn't want anything to do with a fight he knew was hopeless from
the start - leaving others to trade blame.

"Lynton has been rightly exonerated," said one insider. "After all, he's only
just come on board. No 10 people blame CCHQ [Conservative Campaign Headquarters]
for not being prepared. CCHQ people blame No 10 for not allowing them to
prepare."

Apparently, while the party had more than a year to get ready for the
possibility Huhne would resign after he was charged, the leadership feared it
would look "too opportunistic" and might "unsettle the coalition" if they
started campaigning in Eastleigh before he quit.

Either way, nobody is calling for heads to roll. Cameron's growing army of
backbench critics had already factored in defeat in Eastleigh, although they had
expected to be in second rather than third place.

For the next few weeks, all eyes will switch to Osborne. Any slip-ups in the
budget, due on March 20, could prompt Conservative calls for the chancellor to
be replaced, or to quit his election planning role to concentrate on the day
job. Tory MPs are in a black and unforgiving mood. Then on May 2 come the local
elections.

MEANWHILE, the leadership is considering one more concession on Europe to reduce
UKIP's appeal. Two groups of Tory MPs, led by the backbenchers John Baron and
Bill Cash, plan to step up a campaign to push Cameron into introducing
legislation before the election to put the promised 2017 EU membership
referendum on the statute book.

The prime minister has not closed off the idea, even though the chances of Lib
Dem or Labour support for such a bill might be remote.

This weekend a group of women Tory MPs, including Claire Perry, the member for
Devizes, sent Hutchings a bouquet of flowers in sympathy at her bruising defeat.
Cameron will need to come up with something much more dramatic to appease his
own troops.

Additional reporting: Jake Kendall-Ashton. UKIP's purple patch is here to stay,
PM; Adam Boulton, page 25

'' ONE UNLUCKY PERSON WAS CALLED 18 TIMES ON ELECTION DAY

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage's party pushed David Cameron's Conservatives into third
place

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Clampdown on NHS care for migrants;
UK may ditch human rights law ; Migrants face welfare curbs

BYLINE: Marie Woolf ; Isabel Oakeshott ; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1172 words


DAVID CAMERON is preparing to limit the access of immigrants to free healthcare
amid concerns the NHS is being abused by new arrivals and turned into a "global
health service".

The government clampdown will be seen as a response to a surge in support for
UKIP at the Eastleigh by-election and accusations by Tory MPs that Cameron has
failed to get a grip on immigration and the burgeoning cost of new arrivals. In
a "profound" shake-up, ministers are considering making immigrants wait for up
to a year before being able to seek hospital care including operations but
excluding emergency and antenatal care.

The proposals are being drawn up by Cameron, Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary,
Iain Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary, and Mark Harper, the
immigration minister.

The NHS measures are part of a fightback by the prime minister to regain the
initiative by highlighting the government's record on immigration, welfare
reform and criminal justice.

In a response to criticism that his party failed to connect with voters in its
dismal performance at last week's poll, Cameron has said he is determined to
"address the things people care about". He says he will occupy "the common
ground of politics".

"We are engaged in a battle for Britain's future ... It is a battle we will only
win if we reject the cynicism, the political calculation and the easy ways out,
and stick to the course we are on," he said.

In another attempt to head off a Eurosceptic backlash after UKIP's success, the
party has indicated that it will promise in its 2015 manifesto to curb European
human rights law.

Chris Grayling, the justice secretary, has said the party, if it wins the
election, should scrap the Human Rights Act, which puts into law the European
convention on human rights. The convention has been criticised for allowing
foreign criminals and hate preachers to stay in Britain.

"We cannot go on with a situation where people who are a threat to our national
security ... are able to cite their human rights when they are clearly wholly
unconcerned for the rights of others," he told The Sunday Telegraph.

Theresa May, the home secretary, reportedly believes the manifesto should also
include a pledge to withdraw from the convention itself.

Despite the moves to respond to UKIP, however, the prime minister is insisting
the Conservatives must avoid a lurch to the right. Cameron will Continued on
page 2 ?? W W IN THIS SECTION ?? W W Secret £30m payout for terror suspects PAGE
14 Ukippered FOCUS, PAGE 19 Europe hits the self-destruct button EDITORIAL, PAGE
24

? ? Continued from page 1 maintain the ringfence protecting the NHS from
spending cuts and refuse to yield to demands from the Thatcherite right to end
its exemption. The plan to reform immigrants' access to the health service is
based on changing the habitual residency test, which gives access to anyone
permanently resident in the UK.

Immigrants could have to wait six months or even a year before being granted the
right to habitual residency and therefore hospital care.

The tightening of rules will be allied to a campaign against health tourism by
visitors to the UK and those who have no right to free care, including failed
asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. Hospitals will be pushed to enforce the
rules more stringently.

The review is part of a drive to restrict immigrants' access to benefits,
council homes and public services. It follows forecasts that up to 50,000 people
from Romania and Bulgaria may come to Britain annually after limits on them
working here are lifted next year.

Sources close to Hunt said the talks were at an early stage but there was
concern that the NHS, set up to provide free healthcare for Britons, was being
exploited by "more and more" people from overseas, putting strain on services.

"The National Health Service is becoming the global health service," said a
source. "We are looking at the way in which services are open to people.

"You have to be ordinarily resident to access healthcare. We have to have a look
at that and whether there is a prospect of changing that. We are looking in a
bit more detail at the contributions you need to be entitled to free
healthcare."

Frank Field, Labour MP for Birkenhead, and Nicholas Soames, Conservative MP for
Mid Sussex, who co-chair the cross-party group on balanced migration, have
written to Hunt proposing that an entitlement card granting access to NHS care
should be granted to UK residents. The letter urges Hunt to "get this situation
dealt with very soon" to avoid a public backlash.

Cameron is under intense pressure from his own members following the
Conservatives' showing at Eastleigh. The party came third behind the Liberal
Democrats and UKIP, raising serious questions over its strategy in the run-up to
the 2015 election.

There are fears the party may be unable to attract top-flight candidates for all
its target seats, with evidence that some constituencies are already struggling.
Officials have had to re-advertise for candidates in at least four of the 40
marginals it is thought to be targeting.

Although there is no immediate threat to the leadership, backbenchers are
fractious, with many fearing the chances of winning an overall majority in 2015
are slipping away.

In The Sunday Times today, Adam Afriyie, a future party leadership hopeful,
claims the Tories appear to be "ducking the difficult issues, time and again",
which he calls a "major problem".

"Many people do feel we've let them down," he writes. He highlights immigration
as a key concern, claiming people feel the number of arrivals is "excessive ...
at a time when we can hardly fend for ourselves".

No 10 is also considering whether to bring in legislation before the next
election to promise an in/out referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. The
prime minister has indicated to backbenchers that he is willing to discuss it.

Over the coming weeks, Tory backbenchers - led by John Baron, Bill Cash and
Bernard Jenkin and Bill Cash - plan to step up calls for Cameron to introduce
the law early to prove the party has no intention of reneging on its pledge to
hold the referendum in 2017 if it forms the next government.

Those who support earlier legislation, who include Afriyie, believe it could
force Labour and the Liberal Democrats to say openly whether they support a
referendum. Cameron is said to be worried the bill would be defeated and would
also prefer to go into the election with the Conservatives as the only party
openly supporting an in-out vote.

Meanwhile, the government will tomorrow claim it has helped save families
struggling with the cost of mortgages as much as £1,000 a year as a result of a
lending scheme brought in last summer.

Ministers will highlight that the cost of credit has fallen more than in other
advanced economies since the scheme was launched in June. It has led to a fall
in mortgage rates, with the cost of new deals falling as much as £83 a month.

Bringing an end to something-for-nothing welfare, Frank Field, News Review, page
4

? ? Continued from page [...]

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UKIP's purple patch is here to stay, PM

BYLINE: ADAM BOULTON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1399 words


It is a little publicised irony that the UK Independence party's London
headquarters are in Europe House, offices it shares with the European Commission
and parliament. The grand building in Smith Square was also once Margaret
Thatcher's Conservative Central Office. Winning seats in the European parliament
means political funding from Brussels, so Nigel Farage and his team squeeze in
alongside the Greens, making the best of Euro-patronage.

The strong second-place finish by UKIP in the Eastleigh by-election humiliated
the "natural parties of government" and proved that in an age of multi-party
politics UKIP is a force to be reckoned with. In a more relaxed life Farage
could have stood for the Beer, Baccy and Crumpet party, like one of the 10
candidates who lost their deposit in Eastleigh. He spends much of his time
outside Europe House in the congenial surroundings of the "MOG", the nearby
Marquis of Granby pub.

Not for much longer. Even before its best parliamentary by-election result, UKIP
had decided to get serious. Farage may linger in Westminster for his social
life, but the party organisation will soon be moving into bigger offices off
Bond Street, where half a dozen paid staff will work alongside the much greater
number of volunteers and interns clamouring to join a burgeoning movement.

UKIP has split the role of executive chairman by appointing Will Gilpin, a
former RAF fighter pilot and IT expert, as its first chief executive. The ad man
Steve Crowther remains chairman, and Stuart Wheeler is treasurer. So far Wheeler
has handed over less than a tenth of the £5m he donated to the Tory party before
his defection. But his stewardship has ensured UKIP is in the black, helped by
£30 subscriptions from the thousand or so new members who are joining each
month.

Professionalism doesn't stop at head office. UKIP now has its own campaigns
chief to match the likes of Lord Rennard or Lynton Crosby, in the more
down-toearth Lisa Duffy. She is given much of the credit for the party's recent
dramatic second-place finishes in the Labour stronghold of Rotherham and last
week in Eastleigh. But where five people volunteered to canvass on polling day
in Rotherham last November, UKIP says 50 turned up at Eastleigh. What's more,
they looked normal.

In the political fashion parade down the front paths of Eastleigh, Labour's
sharp-suited canvassers were head office on a site visit. The Conservatives
fielded either old buffers or young hotties, slumming it for the experience.
Only the Liberal Democrats and UKIP merged into the background.

I didn't spot any Major Ronald Voletrousers ret'd in UKIP's ranks; instead there
were working women such as their candidate, Diane James. By common consent she
was the best candidate. Many observed that she looked and spoke like someone
you'd expect from the Tories, while the real Conservative, the chaotic Maria
Hutchings, spent much of the campaign hiding from public attention. Diane James
has been associated with UKIP for some years, but she's only recently been
prepared to advertise her support, preferring instead to identify herself before
now as an independent. UKIP argues that she is like many of the 11,571 people
who voted for her, ready at last to stand up and say: "It's OK to back UKIP."
The party believes it has momentum with it. Farage now talks not about the
European parliament elections in June 2014 but of gains in this May's local
elections.

The Lib Dem victors in Eastleigh can of course put a brave face on it. After the
shaming of Chris Huhne and Rennard, this weekend the pressure is off Nick Clegg.
A case can be made that the party can survive a slump in its national share of
the vote provided it fights the next general election as it did in Eastleigh.
The so-called "hundred byelections strategy" in 2015 will mean digging into the
seats and targets where it is either incumbent or has a strong council base
while letting more than 400 other constituencies go hang. This is the reason why
Clegg had no option but to block new constituency boundaries supported by the
Conservatives, which would have torn up Lib Dem roots in their heartlands.

Clegg's next big test will come in May: to halt the devastating erosion of this
councillor base, which set in with the formation of the coalition. Nearly one in
two of the people who voted for Huhne in 2010 failed to turn out for his
successor last week. The Lib Dem share of the vote was down some 14.4 percentage
points, fractionally more than the Conservative slump (13.9 points). And almost
all of it went straight to UKIP, rather exposing the dirty little secret that
before their entry into government, a sizeable chunk of Lib Dem support was from
protest voters considerably more unliberal and Eurosceptic than party orthodoxy.

Grant Shapps, still a somewhat implausible Tory party chairman for all his
energy, dismissed Eastleigh as an irrelevant mid-term protest, pointing out that
Labour did badly as well and arguing that either Cameron or Miliband would be
the next prime minister. But Labour actually held its paltry 10% of the vote.
And if Labour holds nationally, Cameron can only go after Lib Dem seats to gain
the much-coveted overall majority demanded of him by his rancorous MPs.

To achieve outright victory, the Conservatives need to gain 20 constituencies;
Eastleigh may be 55th on the overall target list, but with no Labour prizes,
it's the 15th Lib Dem seat Cameron needs. Having lost Eastleigh to the LibDems
following the death of Stephen Milligan in 1994, the Tories would have regained
the seat in 1997, were it not for votes lost to Sir James Goldmith''s Referendum
party. Today UKIP is much stronger than that.

UKIP could turn out to be a bubble that bursts, but not yet. The political diary
seems designed to keep it alive. Local elections this year, Europeans next and
then Cameron's Faustian pact with his party on a referendum, which guarantees
that Europe will be a live issue in the 2015 election whatever its outcome.
Cameron has fed the Eurosceptic tiger without taming it. In their hearts, many
of his MPs and potential supporters want him to back a no vote - a U-turn that
would immediately destroy the coalition government. Farage's party already
occupies the 'no' space, where he has the leisure to refine and broaden his
manifesto. In Eastleigh, UKIP tried to exploit concern about immigration by
insisting that it is impossible for the UK to control it so long as we are in
the EU. While he and some activists may see UKIP as a vehicle for their own
political office, many more at the heart of the party and edging towards it
would settle for being the force that shifted the Conservative party decisively
against membership of the EU.

Even worse for the prime minister, Labour can sit it out. There is no demand
among potential Labour voters for Miliband to match the Conservative or UKIP
offer. In Eastleigh about a fifth of jobs are dependent on the construction
sector, where competition is fierce. In 2004 neighbouring Southampton absorbed
some 15,000 immigrants from Poland and elsewhere.

Yet according to Labour's rare MP in the area, John Denham, his supporters are
looking for no more than a pledge to consider the issue. As for the EU
referendum, Miliband will find it easy to reject invitations to tie up the first
term of a potential prime ministership on a matter that is not a priority for
his supporters.

Shapps's claim that No 10 is still a Dave v Ed affair overlooks one of the most
significant historical trends in British politics - this is no longer a
two-party state. For 60 years, more and more voters have opted for a party other
than Labour or the Conservatives. That fringe vote was just 3% in the 1950s but
had risen to more than a third at the last general election, on a scale with the
share for each of the two "main" parties. Both the Lib Dems and the Scottish
Nationalists are now in government.

The leader of the Green party became an MP.

In Eastleigh well over half the voters preferred a shade of politics other than
red or blue. UKIP purple is likely to be more than this season's colour. With
the Tories split on Europe, and the voters disillusioned with conventional
politics, the potential is there for Farage and his followers to move from
disruptive force to breakthrough.

Adam Boulton is political editor of Sky News

'I DIDN'T SPOT ANY MAJOR RONALD VOLETROUSERS RET'D IN UKIP'S RANKS'

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Clampdown on NHS care for migrants;
PM pitches for populist vote ; Migrants face welfare and housing curbs

BYLINE: Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1296 words


DAVID CAMERON is preparing to limit the access of immigrants to free healthcare
amid concerns that the NHS is being abused by new arrivals and turned into a
"global health service".

The government clampdown will be seen as a response to a surge in support for
UKIP at the Eastleigh by-election and accusations by Tory MPs that Cameron has
failed to get a grip on immigration and the burgeoning cost of new arrivals. In
a "profound" shake-up of access to healthcare, ministers are considering making
immigrants wait for up to a year before being able to seek hospital care
including operations but excluding emergency and ante-natal care.

The proposals are being drawn up by Cameron, Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary,
Iain Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary, and Mark Harper, the
immigration minister.

The NHS measures are part of a fightback by the prime minister designed to
regain the initiative by highlighting the government's record on immigration,
welfare reform and criminal justice.

In a direct response to criticism that his party failed to connect with voters
in its dismal performance at last week's poll in Eastleigh, Cameron has made it
clear he is determined to "address the things people care about". He has made a
new pledge to occupy "the common ground of politics".

"We are engaged in a battle for Britain's future ... It is a battle we will only
win if we reject the cynicism, the political calculation and the easy ways out,
and stick to the course we are on," he said last night.

In a further attempt to head off a looming Eurosceptic backlash after UKIP's
success, Cameron is considering introducing a law promising a post-election
referendum on Britain's EU membership.

At the same time, however, he is insisting the party must avoid a lurch to the
right. Cameron will maintain the ringfence protecting the NHS from spending cuts
and refuse to yield to demands from the Thatcherite right to end its exemption.

The plan to reform immigrants' access to the health service is based on changing
the habitual residency test, which gives access to services to anyone legally
living here with the UK as their permanent residence.

Immigrants could have to wait six months or even a year before being granted the
right to habitual residency and therefore hospital care.

Ministers are also looking at Continued on page 2 ?? W W

? ? Continued from page 1 tighter restrictions on access to healthcare for
short-term visitors, students and others on temporary visas. They are also
looking at whether migrants should have to make contributions, possibly through
national insurance, before using hospitals.

The tightening of healthcare entitlements will be allied to a campaign against
health tourism by visitors to the UK and those who have no right to free
hospital care, including failed asylum seekers and illegal immigrants.

Hospitals will be pushed to enforce the rules more stringently.

A recent freedom of information request found that a third of trusts were not
asking patients if they were habitually resident in the UK and therefore
eligible for care.

The review is part of a drive to restrict immigrants' access to benefits,
council homes and public services. It follows forecasts that up to 50,000 people
from Romania and Bulgaria may come to Britain annually after limits on them
working here are lifted next year.

Sources close to Hunt said the talks were at an early stage but there was
concern that the NHS, set up to provide free healthcare for Britons, was being
exploited by "more and more" people from overseas, putting strain on services.

"The National Health Service is becoming the global health service," said a
source. "We are looking at the way in which services are open to people.

"You have to be ordinarily resident to access healthcare. We have to have a look
at that and whether there is a prospect of changing that. We are looking in a
bit more detail at the contributions you need to be entitled to free
healthcare."

Frank Field, Labour MP for Birkenhead, and Nicholas Soames, Conservative MP for
Mid Sussex, who co-chair the cross-party group on balanced migration, have
written to Hunt proposing that an entitlement card granting access to primary
and or secondary care in the NHS should be granted to those who are ordinarily
resident in the UK.

The letter urges Hunt to "get this situation dealt with very soon" to avoid a
public backlash.

"As the financial pressures on the NHS intensify, access to primary care that is
open to the whole world will stretch public tolerance to the limit," the letter
warns.

Cameron is under intense pressure from his own members following the
Conservatives' showing at Eastleigh. The party came third behind the Liberal
Democrats and UKIP, raising serious questions over its strategy in the run-up to
the 2015 election.

There are fears that the party may be unable to attract topflight candidates for
all its target seats, with evidence that some constituencies are already
struggling. Party officials have had to re-advertise for candidates in at least
four of the 40 marginal constituencies it is thought to be targeting.

Although there is no immediate threat to the leadership, backbenchers are
increasingly fractious, with many fearing the chances of winning an overall
majority in 2015 are rapidly slipping away.

In an article for The Sunday Times today, Adam Afriyie, a future party
leadership hopeful, claims the Tories appear to be "ducking the difficult
issues, time and again", a weakness he describes as a "major problem".

"Many people do feel we've let them down," he writes. He highlights immigration
as a key concern, claiming people feel the number of arrivals is "excessive ...
at a time when we can hardly fend for ourselves".

No 10 is also considering whether to bring in legislation before the next
election to promise an in-out referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. The
prime minister has indicated to backbenchers he is willing to discuss it.

Over coming weeks, two groups of Tory MPs - led by John Baron and Bill Cash -
are planning to step up calls for Cameron to introduce the law early to prove
the party has no intention of reneging on a pledge to hold a vote if it forms
the next government.

In his landmark Europe speech in January, the prime minister promised to draft
legislation before the election, but not to pass it until afterwards. The vote
would then be held by the end of 2017, after a series of negotiations to
overhaul Britain's membership terms.

Those who support earlier legislation, who include Afriyie, believe it could
help the Tories by forcing Labour and the Liberal Democrats to say openly
whether they support a referendum.

Cameron is said to be worried the bill would be defeated and would also prefer
to go into the election with the Conservatives as the only party openly
supporting an in-out vote.

The prime minister may draw some consolation from a YouGov poll for today's
Sunday Times suggesting taunts from UKIP and others that he is not a genuine
Conservative are failing to impress his supporters, of whom 77% believe he is
genuinely one of them.

This drops to 62% of Tory voters from 2010, suggesting that at least some who
may desert the party in the next election believe he has strayed from true
Conservatism.

Meanwhile, the government will tomorrow claim it has helped save families
struggling with the cost of mortgages as much as £1,000 a year as a result of a
scheme brought in last summer.

Ministers will highlight that the cost of credit has fallen more than in other
advanced economies since a lending scheme was launched in June. It has led to a
sharp fall in mortgage rates, with the cost of new deals falling as much as £83
a month.

Bringing an end to something-for-nothing welfare, Frank Field, News Review, page
4

? ? Continued from page [...]

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

EUROPE HITS THE SELF-DESTRUCT BUT TON

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 788 words


The best thing that can be said about the state of British politics is that it
is a long way from the farce that is Italy. The UK Independence party (UKIP),
with no seats yet in parliament, may have shaken up the Eastleigh byelection but
Nigel Farage is no Beppe Grillo, the comedian who secured 26% of the vote in the
Italian general election.

British politicians should worry more about Rome than Eastleigh. The closer that
clownscum-politicians such as Mr Grillo get to power, not to mention Silvio
Berlusconi, who secured a 30% share of the vote, the more we should be concerned
about the future of Europe. The market on which Britain depends for a large but
dwindling proportion of its trade is built on increasingly shaky political
foundations. It could all go badly wrong.

European leaders, meanwhile, seem determined to advance the cause of sceptics in
Britain. Herman Van Rompuy, the European Council president, visited the City of
London last week to fire a shot across the bows of the prime minister and his
referendum plan. He said: "How do you convince a room full of people, when you
keep your hand on the door handle? How to encourage a friend to change, if your
eyes are searching for your coat?" There was, said Mr Van Rompuy, no need to
change existing EU treaties, and no appetite for it among European leaders.
Britain's request to redefine its relationship would be listened to politely, he
said, while implying that we should not hold our breath for any significant
repatriation of powers.

EU leaders simply do not get it. They do not get that being lectured to by an
obscure Belgian politician elevated to high office in Brussels sticks in the
craw. The fact that we have provided an obscure politician of our own, Baroness
Ashton, European Commission vice-president and "high representative" for foreign
affairs, is no comfort.

They do not get that when a majority of EU countries announce a deal to cap
bankers' bonuses, a populist measure that will have the perverse result of
making the banks' salary bills less flexible and will disadvantage the City of
London, even banker-hating British voters can sense something is amiss.

The bonus cap, if the government is unsuccessful in ameliorating its effects,
will provide a powerful incentive for banks to relocate from Britain, and indeed
Europe. The financial services sector, for all its recent sins, is one of the
strengths of the British economy. Boris Johnson, the London mayor, put it well
when he said: "People will wonder why we stay in the EU if it persists in such
transparently selfdefeating policies."

The bonus cap is not the EU's only delusion. Mr Van Rompuy and his colleagues
appear to think that the euro crisis is over and, as he put it last week, that
"it is finally sinking in that the euro is here to stay". As an exercise in
hubris, it calls to mind the initial reaction of European leaders to the start
of the global financial crisis, which was that it was an Anglo-Saxon problem
that would have little impact on them. Instead, the eurozone quickly found
itself at the heart of the crisis.

Make no mistake, the euro crisis is far from over. The Italian election has
proved, not only that Italy is in political disarray, but that European voters
are growing tired of austerity. They have demonstrated it in Greece, France and
now, most dramatically, in Italy. The vote was not just against austerity - Mr
Grillo's campaign targeted corruption in Italian politics - but the effect will
be the same. Mario Monti, the unelected leader who had steered Italy away from
the economic abyss over the past year or so, got just 10% of the vote.

For Europe, the threat is a collapse of the grand bargain that has persuaded
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, to commit her taxpayers to supporting the
expensive rescues that have held the euro together. German patience, however,
may be wearing thin, compounded by unease over the European Central Bank's
apparently open-ended commitment to propping up the eurozone's sickly members.
The more voters reject austerity, the less willing Germany will be to act as the
eurozone's paymaster.

Our patience is wearing thin, too. European politicians have failed to take
advantage of the breathing space offered by calmer markets to introduce the
reforms needed to put the EU on a stronger footing. The weather forecast for
Europe is prolonged depression. At the same time, the EU appears determined, for
no good reason, to undermine Britain, and to offer little hope that Mr Cameron's
promised renegotiation will come to anything. UKIP stole the headlines with its
performance in Eastleigh. But the EU is providing us with good reason to worry
about what is going on in Europe. We should all be Eurosceptics now.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 24, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Who's really won this in/out referendum?

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 156 words


The Tory chairman Grant Shapps was delighted to have recruited MEP Marta
Andreasen from the UK Independence party. But might the Conservatives come to
regret their good fortune? Andreasen, a former chief accountant of the European
Commission, says it was David Cameron's in/out referendum speech last month that
sealed the deal. Yet she didn't seem very enthusiastic at the time. Back then
she described the speech as "naive" and added: "Mr Cameron fundamentally fails
to understand the federal EU freight train." Just what the prime minister needs:
another outspoken Eurosceptic in the party.

UKIP is trying to put a bold face on it. A party blogger said: "Marta has been a
pain in the a*** for some time now. I think I speak for most UKIP members when I
say goodbye and good riddance." Party leader Nigel Farage was only slightly more
discreet. He gloated: "The Conservative party deserve what's coming to them. The
woman is impossible."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Italy's sausage-fuelled comic is an election sizzler

BYLINE: John Follain

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 761 words


TO BEPPE GRILLO, the rented Fiat camper van from which he is waging his general
election campaign in Italy is "a revolutionary cell" that is about to overthrow
much of the country's corrupt political class.

"You want to come to bed with me?" joked Grillo, as he emerged from a cramped
bedroom at the back of the van after an early afternoon siesta.

The bearded 64-year-old is a former stand-up comedian, whose maverick grassroots
movement has become the country's third political force.

In an interview with The Sunday Times in the car park of a bed-and-breakfast
near Padua, northeastern Italy, he predicted that the Five-Star Movement he
founded in 2009 will win the February 24 election.

He was exaggerating his optimism, perhaps, but an opinion poll late last week
credited him with 14% of the vote, behind the centre-left frontrunner Pier Luigi
Bersani on 37% and the former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi on 30%.

Pollsters said Italy's undecided voters - about 25% of the electorate - were
rallying behind Grillo amid widespread anger at austerity, unemployment and
political corruption. His movement could win 100 seats or more in the 630-seat
lower house of parliament.

Accompanying Grillo in the van are just three supporters armed with laptops, an
aerial to connect them to the internet and the ham and sausages supporters have
donated along the way. He trades them for petrol. The camper has travelled 4,300
miles and has another 30 stops to make.

"People give us ham, sausages, oranges. We sleep at their homes, or we spend
(EURO)30 on a B&B. I'm the only candidate who is against the system. I don't
take public money, we're funding ourselves with donations," said Grillo, who
been married twice and has eight children.

Despite his modest resources, Grillo has built up an army of supporters on the
web - 800,000 followers on Twitter and more than 1m on Facebook. His blog has
250,000 hits a day. "Something's going to happen - people want to kick them
out," said Grillo, who drew tens of thousands nationally with his V-Day
demonstrations - the "V" standing for the Italian for f*** off.

By "them", he means the political classes. He calls them "zombies". Berlusconi
is "psycho dwarf" and Mario Monti, the outgoing prime minister, "rigor Montis".

Grillo, who has worked as an actor, comic and accountant, would ban anyone with
a criminal conviction, or facing trial, from standing for parliament. He also
wants an end to parliamentary immunity in corruption cases and an end to MPs
serving more than two terms.

He has called for a new economic model based "not on growth and GDP" but on
jobs, with tax cuts for companies that create employment. "We would move taxes
from labour to those who consume energy, we would cut taxes on small firms and
we want a state bank to make loans to small and medium-sized companies," he
said.

Grillo, who has called for a referendum on whether to keep the euro, says that
he wants to renegotiate many of the pillars of the European Union but not to
leave it altogether. He favours a common stock exchange, tax policy and
immigration rules.

"We will renegotiate the Maastricht rules [on conditions for euro-membership].
We will renegotiate all the treaties from Schengen [on open borders] to the
Bolkestein directive [on services in the internal market] ... everything," he
said.

"In Sicily, there's the biggest fishing fleet in Europe but the EU has imposed
wide-mesh nets for fishing shrimp. They can't do it. The Japanese come along and
they [the Sicilians] starve."

Criticised as a populist demagogue, Grillo cheerfully accepts the label. "Yes,
I'm a big populist, this entire political class must be wiped out immediately,"
he said.

But he bristled when reminded of Federica Salsi, a Bologna city councillor, who
disobeyed him when he banned her from appearing on TV talk shows. He had her
expelled from the party.

"I wasn't against the woman," he said. "There are people who go on these shows
for the sake of appearing for five minutes of fame."

Although he has been branded "Italy's New Duce" for his autocratic style, Grillo
said he had no intention of becoming prime minister.

"I'm not a candidate because I have 86 lawsuits pending against me," he said.

Grillo has a conviction dating back to 1980 for manslaughter after a car he was
driving crashed, killing three passengers.

"This is not a movement based on a leader. There will be a direct election
online to choose a spokesman. I'll be a guarantor, not the prime minister," he
said. "This is a community, there is another Italy outside here which is
following us, real-time."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Beppe Grillo greets supporters from his camper van

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stuck in the past;
This look at six key postwar foreign-policy decisions shows how little has
changed in Britain's world view

BYLINE: GILL BENNETT ; DOMINIC SANDBROOK

SECTION: CULTURE;FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1040 words


SIX MOMENTS OF CRISIS Inside British Foreign Policy

by GILL BENNETT

OUP £20/ebook £20 pp223

Between the age of Clement Attlee and the heyday of Margaret Thatcher, the face
and flavour of British life changed almost beyond recognition. Tweed gave way to
polyester, wood to plastic, flat caps to baseball caps, the wireless to the home
computer. Even the characters of the prime ministers themselves could hardly
have been more different. Where Attlee had waited anxiously beside the
ticker-tape machine inside No 10 for his beloved cricket results, four decades
later the grocer's daughter held court, breathing fire at her opponents and
ministers alike. And yet some things seemed barely to have changed, chief among
them the thrust of British foreign policy. Indeed, our diplomatic dilemmas
remain much the same. Are we a world power or a European one? Do we need a
genuinely global military presence? Do we talk to dictators, or try to bring
them down? How far do we go along with the Americans? Above all - wherever it
may be - do we go in or stay out?

Foreign policy does not, of course, take place in a vacuum. For Gill Bennett,
formerly the chief historian at the Foreign Of-fice, British citizens are now
"more aware of what is happening in the world than they have ever been". Yet to
ordinary people unable to place Timbuktu on the map, international affairs can
seem "frightening, confusing or even inexplicable", while government policy
often appears bafflingly impenetrable. Bennett, therefore, has decided to pull
back the curtain, concentrating on six key decisions: intervening in Korea in
1950, challenging Colonel Nasser at Suez in 1956, applying to join the EEC in
1961, scrapping Britain's military presence in Asia in 1968, kicking out 105
Soviet spies in 1971, and fighting in the Falklands in 1982. In each case she
focuses on just one cabinet meeting, and on the prime ministers concerned. As
Tony Blair once put it, everybody else can talk as much as they like, "but only
one person can decide".

At one level, Bennett shows, the central theme of Britain's postwar diplomacy
has always been our refusal to adjust to reduced circumstances. At a time when
the papers are full of our escalating involvement in Mali, it feels somehow
appropriate that the book opens with Attlee's decision to send 9,000 British men
to Korea, even though our battered economy could hardly afford it. To the men
who built the welfare state, it seemed unthinkable that Britain could withdraw
from its worldwide responsibilities. The tone was set by the bullish figure of
Ernest Bevin, a former labourer who rose to become Attlee's foreign secretary
and immodestly described himself as "a turn up in a million". The guiding
philosophy of his foreign policy, Bevin once remarked, was "to be able to take a
ticket at Victoria station and go anywhere I damn well please!"

These were fine, even admirable sentiments; the only problem, then as now, was
that Britain could not afford them. Yet one of the lessons of Bennett's book is
that few politicians, once comfortably in office, have the courage to argue for
a reduced role. Perhaps surprisingly, even Aneurin Bevan, the founder of the
NHS, and conscience of the Labour left, was a keen supporter of intervention in
Korea, and even suggested sending a larger contingent. What later prompted Bevan
to resign, Bennett points out, was the prospect of cutting domestic spending to
pay for the war, not the war itself.

Tory leaders, meanwhile, have often proved even more gungho. One of the most
memorable moments in this scrupulous, dry and rather colourless book is the
spectacle of that shameless mountebank Harold Macmillan rattling his sabre
before Suez in 1956. As chancellor, Macmillan knew perfectly well that Britain's
wretched finances would never withstand international pressure if Anthony Eden's
misguided adventure went wrong. Even so, he appointed himself chief crusader in
the campaign against Egypt's President Nasser (an "Asiatic Mussolini", as
Macmillan ridiculously put it). The operation promptly blew up in Britain's
face, Eden's health broke down, and, in a supremely cruel injustice, Macmillan
strolled into No 10, brushing aside the more dif-fident Rab Butler. To a
generation of politicians, the lesson was clear: better to wave your sword, even
if you are wrong, than to keep it quietly sheathed.

In her introduction, Bennett insists that cabinet meetings really matter,
because policy is ultimately made by ministers, "not by officials, special
advisers, Brussels or Washington". But I think her book tells a different story.
Of the meetings she describes, most seem to have been frankly dull affairs, with
surprisingly little disagreement. In every case, the conventional wisdom,
personified by the prime minister, easily won the day. There was never any
chance, for example, that Eden would refrain from military action against
Nasser, and there was never any doubt that Thatcher would fight to retake the
Falklands. And since most politicians are primarily interested in securing their
own place on the greasy pole, dissenting voices are rarely heard. In 1950,
Bevin's deputy, Kenneth Younger, thought there was "too little principle and too
much pragmatism and a lack of leadership in the face of American pressure", but
he was too junior to wield much influence. Even the meeting 11 years later that
resulted in our first application for European membership - one of the most
momentous decisions, perhaps, in our history - seems to have been a
spectacularly soporific occasion.

In an unexpected way, therefore, this book is as powerful an argument for David
Cameron's EU referendum as anybody could want - not least because Bennett shows
beyond any dispute that, as far back as 1961, politicians adopted a "deliberate
strategy" to downplay the possible consequences of European membership for
British self-government. The truth is that for far too long British foreign
affairs have been governed by an unimaginative spirit of mandarin
self-satisfaction.

Maybe it really is time to let the people have their say.

Available at the Sunday Times Bookshop price of £16 (inc p&p) and £20 (ebook) on
0845 271 2135

Do we talk to dictators, or try to bring them down? Do we go in or stay out?

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Action station: British troops during the Korean War, 1951

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Italy's sausage-fuelled comic is an election sizzler

BYLINE: John Follain

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 761 words


TO BEPPE GRILLO, the rented Fiat camper van from which he is waging his general
election campaign in Italy is "a revolutionary cell" that is about to overthrow
much of the country's corrupt political class.

"You want to come to bed with me?" joked Grillo, as he emerged from a cramped
bedroom at the back of the van after an early afternoon siesta.

The bearded 64-year-old is a former stand-up comedian, whose maverick grassroots
movement has become the country's third political force.

In an interview with The Sunday Times in the car park of a bed-and-breakfast
near Padua, northeastern Italy, he predicted that the Five-Star Movement he
founded in 2009 will win the February 24 election.

He was exaggerating his optimism, perhaps, but an opinion poll late last week
credited him with 14% of the vote, behind the centre-left frontrunner Pier Luigi
Bersani on 37% and the former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi on 30%.

Pollsters said Italy's undecided voters - about 25% of the electorate - were
rallying behind Grillo amid widespread anger at austerity, unemployment and
political corruption. His movement could win 100 seats or more in the 630-seat
lower house of parliament.

Accompanying Grillo in the van are just three supporters armed with laptops, an
aerial to connect them to the internet and the ham and sausages supporters have
donated along the way. He trades them for petrol. The camper has travelled 4,300
miles and has another 30 stops to make.

"People give us ham, sausages, oranges. We sleep at their homes, or we spend
(EURO)30 on a B&B. I'm the only candidate who is against the system. I don't
take public money, we're funding ourselves with donations," said Grillo, who
been married twice and has eight children.

Despite his modest resources, Grillo has built up an army of supporters on the
web - 800,000 followers on Twitter and more than 1m on Facebook. His blog has
250,000 hits a day. "Something's going to happen - people want to kick them
out," said Grillo, who drew tens of thousands nationally with his V-Day
demonstrations - the "V" standing for the Italian for f*** off.

By "them", he means the political classes. He calls them "zombies". Berlusconi
is "psycho dwarf" and Mario Monti, the outgoing prime minister, "rigor Montis".

Grillo, who has worked as an actor, comic and accountant, would ban anyone with
a criminal conviction, or facing trial, from standing for parliament. He also
wants an end to parliamentary immunity in corruption cases and an end to MPs
serving more than two terms.

He has called for a new economic model based "not on growth and GDP" but on
jobs, with tax cuts for companies that create employment. "We would move taxes
from labour to those who consume energy, we would cut taxes on small firms and
we want a state bank to make loans to small and medium-sized companies," he
said.

Grillo, who has called for a referendum on whether to keep the euro, says that
he wants to renegotiate many of the pillars of the European Union but not to
leave it altogether. He favours a common stock exchange, tax policy and
immigration rules.

"We will renegotiate the Maastricht rules [on conditions for euro-membership].
We will renegotiate all the treaties from Schengen [on open borders] to the
Bolkestein directive [on services in the internal market] ... everything," he
said.

"In Sicily, there's the biggest fishing fleet in Europe but the EU has imposed
wide-mesh nets for fishing shrimp. They can't do it. The Japanese come along and
they [the Sicilians] starve."

Criticised as a populist demagogue, Grillo cheerfully accepts the label. "Yes,
I'm a big populist, this entire political class must be wiped out immediately,"
he said.

But he bristled when reminded of Federica Salsi, a Bologna city councillor, who
disobeyed him when he banned her from appearing on TV talk shows. He had her
expelled from the party.

"I wasn't against the woman," he said. "There are people who go on these shows
for the sake of appearing for five minutes of fame."

Although he has been branded "Italy's New Duce" for his autocratic style, Grillo
said he had no intention of becoming prime minister.

"I'm not a candidate because I have 86 lawsuits pending against me," he said.

Grillo has a conviction dating back to 1980 for manslaughter after a car he was
driving crashed, killing three passengers.

"This is not a movement based on a leader. There will be a direct election
online to choose a spokesman. I'll be a guarantor, not the prime minister," he
said. "This is a community, there is another Italy outside here which is
following us, real-time."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Beppe Grillo greets supporters from his camper van
ALESSIO MAMO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEPs threaten to block Cameron's budget deal

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 265 words


LEADERS of the European parliament have stepped up warnings that they could
block last week's deal secured by David Cameron to cut Brussels spending for the
first time.

The MEPs said they would oppose the settlement in a secret ballot.

The warning from leaders of the four largest groups in the parliament came as
Downing Street considered introducing before the next election legislation
promising a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. In a speech last
month, the prime minister said a bill would be drafted before 2015 but not
passed until after the election if it was won by the Conservatives.

He has been under pressure from his party to pass legislation earlier to assure
voters he will not change his mind.

The seven-year EU budget deal sets payments from member states for 2014-20 at
(EURO)908.4bn (£770bn), down from £800bn for the previous period.

Leading MEPs said they would use their power to block the deal unless national
leaders gave them power to review the budget after two years and re-allocate
funds to priority projects.

Hannes Swoboda, who chairs the parliament's socialists and democrats group,
said: "A deal also depends on whether other leaders choose to accept Mr
Cameron's vision of Europe as simply a single market. We reject that vision."

Edward McMillan-Scott, vice-president of the parliament and Liberal Democrat MEP
for Yorkshire and the Humber, said: "There is a strong sense that the budget
deal, as it stands, will be rejected by the parliament.

"British politicians might find secret ballots a bit iffy but the parliament has
voted like that in the past."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

MEPs threaten to block Cameron's budget deal

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski ; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 265 words


LEADERS of the European parliament have stepped up warnings that they could
block last week's deal secured by David Cameron to cut Brussels spending for the
first time.

The MEPs said they would oppose the settlement in a secret ballot.

The warning from leaders of the four largest groups in the parliament came as
Downing Street considered introducing before the next election legislation
promising a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. In a speech last
month, the prime minister said a bill would be drafted before 2015 but not
passed until after the election if it was won by the Conservatives.

He has been under pressure from his party to pass legislation earlier to assure
voters he will not change his mind.

The seven-year EU budget deal sets payments from member states for 2014-20 at
(EURO)908.4bn (£770bn), down from £800bn for the previous period.

Leading MEPs said they would use their power to block the deal unless national
leaders gave them power to review the budget after two years and re-allocate
funds to priority projects.

Hannes Swoboda, who chairs the parliament's socialists and democrats group,
said: "A deal also depends on whether other leaders choose to accept Mr
Cameron's vision of Europe as simply a single market. We reject that vision."

Edward McMillan-Scott, vice-president of the parliament and Liberal Democrat MEP
for Yorkshire and the Humber, said: "There is a strong sense that the budget
deal, as it stands, will be rejected by the parliament.

"British politicians might find secret ballots a bit iffy but the parliament has
voted like that in the past."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 194 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

MEPs threaten to block Cameron's budget deal

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski ; Jack Grimston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 265 words


LEADERS of the European parliament have stepped up warnings that they could
block last week's deal secured by David Cameron to cut Brussels spending for the
first time.

The MEPs said they would oppose the settlement in a secret ballot.

The warning from leaders of the four largest groups in the parliament came as
Downing Street considered introducing before the next election legislation
promising a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. In a speech last
month, the prime minister said a bill would be drafted before 2015 but not
passed until after the election if it was won by the Conservatives.

He has been under pressure from his party to pass legislation earlier to assure
voters he will not change his mind.

The seven-year EU budget deal sets payments from member states for 2014-20 at
(EURO)908.4bn (£770bn), down from £800bn for the previous period.

Leading MEPs said they would use their power to block the deal unless national
leaders gave them power to review the budget after two years and re-allocate
funds to priority projects.

Hannes Swoboda, who chairs the parliament's socialists and democrats group,
said: "A deal also depends on whether other leaders choose to accept Mr
Cameron's vision of Europe as simply a single market. We reject that vision."

Edward McMillan-Scott, vice-president of the parliament and Liberal Democrat MEP
for Yorkshire and the Humber, said: "There is a strong sense that the budget
deal, as it stands, will be rejected by the parliament.

"British politicians might find secret ballots a bit iffy but the parliament has
voted like that in the past."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
