
                               1 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ghosts of the past still haunt Dave and Ed;
TheTories must overcome their nasty party brand while Labour must restore its
economic credentials

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1006 words


It is a cold, bleak, biting Christmas Eve and the politicians sit busy in their
counting houses. Ebenezer Scrooge would be happy in this season of austerity.
Like him the Government is a tight­fisted hand at the grindstone - squeezing,
wrenching, scraping, clutching. Bah humbug, David Cameron, Ed Miliband and Nick
Clegg must say to any who urge a spending spree.

And now the Ghosts of Christmas Past, Present and Yet To Come are stalking
Westminster. As the year draws to an end, all the political leaders are haunted
by history, spooked by the present and fearful of their fate. With curious
symmetry, each needs to do more to shape a vision of the future that inspires
rather than terrifies.

The Prime Minister is surrounded on all sides by ghouls from the Tory grave. At
the weekend Vince Cable summoned the spectre of Enoch Powell in an attempt to
embarrass the Conservatives over immigration. It was unfair - Mr Cameron would
never warn of "rivers of blood" flowing through the streets - but the Business
Secretary touched a nerve because the Tories are still haunted by the issue of
race.

There is a historic suspicion of the Conservatives among ethnic minority voters
that could prove critical at the next election - indeed it almost certainly cost
Mr Cameron outright victory in 2010 when the single biggest predictor of not
voting Tory was not being white. Although 37 per cent of white voters supported
the party, only 16 per cent of non­white voters did and the ethnicity effect
worked equally across different socio­ economic groups. This was less to do with
hostility to individual policies then a problem with the idea of voting
Conservative at all.

Now Tory ministers conJure up a phantom of a mass influx of migrants when visa
restrictions are lifted on Bulgarian and Romanian workers next week. They
promise to limit benefits for new arrivals, and float proposals - which they
must know are unworkable - for a cap on migration from EU countries. Some senior
Tories are nervous that the ramping up of the rhetoric in an attempt to reassure
traditional supporters will reinforce negative stereotypes with potential new
voters, including those from ethnic minorities, in key swing seats. The
hostility to outsiders - especially when combined with tough language on welfare
- sends a chill down moderate voters' spines.

Then there's the apparition of Europe. A leader who once said the Conservatives
had to stop "banging on" about Brussels now finds himself demanding the
repatriation of powers and promising an in/out referendum. He is trying to
appease Eurosceptic backbenches but he will never manage to do so. This is an
insatiable beast that responds to every titbit by demanding more from a leader
who can never give many of them what they really want - withdrawal. Boris
Johnson fans the flames by asking, not so innocently: "What's the point of the
EU?" In­fighting and divisions over Europe destroyed Margaret Thatcher and John
MaJor, making the Conservatives look narrow­ minded and obsessive, but the
ideologues seem determined to repeat the mistakes. Mr Cameron will only defeat
the Ghost of Christmas Present - Nigel Farage - if he learns the lessons from
the past and promotes outward­looking compassion for the future.

Ed Miliband is similarly haunted by his party's history. On the economy, Labour
lacks credibility because it will not face up to its own failings when in power.
Having worked so closely with Gordon Brown, it is hard for the Shadow Chancellor
Ed Balls to admit that some huge errors of Judgment were made by his mentor.
Although Mr Miliband has made the running on the cost of living crisis, he has
still not explained how he would deal with the deficit or govern with no money.
There is too little clarity about how his party would generate growth. Economic
credibility is Labour's traditional weakness - unless it resolves the past on
this issue it will not get permission to shape the future.

Mr Miliband is keener to dance on Tony Blair's grave. The Labour leader seems
determined to define himself in contrast to the man who won three elections.
When it comes to policy on business, tax or foreign affairs, one MP says: "Ed
asks: 'What would Tony do?' then does the opposite." Already, tensions are
emerging over Labour's response to the Chilcot Inquiry into the Iraq war, which
is due to report next year. Mr Miliband can credibly make clear his opposition
to liberal interventionism - he never supported the war against Saddam Hussein
and more recently thwarted action in Syria - but some around him want him to go
farther and use this as another opportunity to dump on his predecessor. It would
be a mistake to throw away the wider legacy of Mr Blair - a sense that Labour
can occupy the centre ground and value aspiration.

For this reason the Labour leader must also see off his own Ghost of Christmas
Present, Len McCluskey, the general secretary of Unite. Having started a fight
with the trade unions after the vote­rigging scandal in Falkirk, Mr Miliband
must now win it and introduce a system of individual membership and votes in
leadership elections and conferences. If he does, then he can present himself,
legitimately, as the champion of a new kind of politics, a leader who can take
on the vested interests of the left as well as the right.

Meanwhile, Nick Clegg's Ghosts of Christmas Past and Present merge: he is
haunted by the implications of having gone into government with the
Conservatives. From tuition fees to austerity, the compromises of power have
ended the Liberal Democrats' role as the protest vote party. Mr Clegg must now
find a political identity that goes beyond a desire to be the permanent king­
maker in coalition with other parties.

With 16 months to go until the general election, it's not too late for any of
the leaders to head off the ghouls and shape their own futures. But they must do
so if they want the voters to support them and echo Tiny Tim in declaring: "God
bless us, every one".

Nick Clegg must prove he hasn't surrendered to the Conservatives

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vince Cable summoned the spectre of Enoch Powell and his infamous
speech

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 21, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fools are often wiser than us clever dicks;
They say Miliband is ineffectual, Clegg insubstantial and Cameron Just a posh
boy. They may be right

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1022 words


It being that time of the year, here (from Ecclesiastes 9:1) beginneth the
lesson: "I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift,
nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to
men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance
happeneth to them all."

Your columnist being a spoilsport, the lesson endeth not here but with a
rejoinder from H. L. Mencken. The Good Book (said the great American journalist
and cynic) may well claim that the race is not to the swift nor the battle to
the strong, "but that's the way to bet".

Which is it then: Mencken or Ecclesiastes? As mentally I review the clever
prophecies for the years ahead that we columnists have laboured to offer you
this year, I reflect with sinking heart that dear old Mencken's got a point.
More things in Heaven and Earth and British politics than we analysts would dare
to admit turn out to be so stupid they're true.

Ruefully contemplating a political outcome, my favourite of all Queen Victoria's
prime ministers, the moderate Whig, Viscount Melbourne, commented: "What all the
wise men promised has not happened, and what all the damn fools said would
happen has come to pass."

But which columnist wants to be a damn fool? Where's the attraction in stating
the obvious: that most things default to the mean and most people revert to
type? Young journalists are taught that every good newspaper story needs the
"hey, Mum!" factor. The Met Office says the Christmas ahead will be mild and
wet, and YouGov says the coming Scottish referendum will return a decisive "No"
to independence - but where's the "hey, Mum!" in either report? And so,
persuading ourselves that the time and thought we political commentators devote
to studying public affairs, the contacts we have, the inside information
available to us and the experience we boast may lift our commentary into the
realms of the surprising but true, we aim to equip you better to guess what's in
store, confound your assumptions, and raise your judgment too above that of the
herd. "Hold your horses!" is our sage advice. "There's more to this than meets
the eye."

Well, sometimes. But all too often there really isn't and the fools turn out to
have been right all along. I end the year clinging a little precariously to an
array of challenges to the conventional wisdom that I've persisted in making.
I'm not quite ready to give up on most of them, but my fingernails are turning
white.

First, Ed Miliband. Here's what the fools always said. The polling's clear: the
public see him as probably decent, "heart in the right place", but ineffectual;
a political jelly baby and chronically indecisive; a wobbly wonk who follows
rather than leads and will never say or do anything he isn't forced to; elected
leader only thanks to the trade unions, say fools, he will never kick over the
traces. Show Ed a fight and he'll funk it.

I say he's better than that. "I resolve", I wrote this year, "to persist, keep
my mind open, maybe because I really do suspect there's flint beneath the
fudge." And when Mr Miliband astonished more cynical observers by vowing to
reform fundamentally Labour's union links, I invited the fools to wise-up and
contemplate the possibility that he was serious.

Uh oh. It looks like he's going to funk it. That's the way to bet.

Then there's Nick Clegg. Much of the public have no doubt. Negligible Nick;
probably a nice man and doing his best, but insubstantial, buffeted between his
party and the Tory-led Government. Unlikely to make the weather, or take a
stand. We can discount him, say the fools on the Clapham omnibus.

I've taken a different view. I've seen him as brave and resolute and capable of
surprising. I've seen him as ideologically not too far from the Tory moderates,
but viscerally repelled by British class-based politics, and by a strand in the
Conservative Party that's simply nasty. There's a generous anchorage available
in our politics for such a view (basically my colleague Tim Montgomerie's
conjectured "Liberal Party") but it would entail defying many Liberal Democrat
softsocialists.

As I write it looks all too likely that Mr Clegg will be blown their way. Fools,
you have not had your victory yet and I don't yet concede. But frankly yours is
the way to bet.

Third there's David Cameron. I've been a supporter from the start, and remain
one. I know what the fools say and they've said it from the start: what does he
believe in? Posh boy, PR man, softie, all marshmallow and no crunch,
philosophically shallow, no strategy, no master plan, lives for the day, muddles
through and will drift, or flounder or sell out. If he wins in 2015 there'll be
a failure seriously to renegotiate our relationship with the EU, which he'll
sell as a success.

I've said different: that he's a true Tory, deeply anchored but suspicious of
ideology; that he knows the need to bend with the wind but is fundamentally
honourable and decent and ready to stick to his guns when the fight matters.

Well, on Mr Cameron I'm sticking to my guns, though a little timorously. My bet
is still that he'll lead from the front; but I watched him look away this year
while a small but troubling Tory shift in an unsavoury direction took place. The
odds that I'm wrong and the fools are right have shortened this year.

And Boris? The fools say he's simply, only - and ferociously - focused on
becoming prime minister. I believe his protestation that there's no such plan. I
run up the white flag. The fools were right and that's the way to bet.

Finally an issue rather than a personality: fears of an imminent flood of
economic migrants from Romania and Bulgaria. "Britain is rich; Eastern Europe is
poor; ergo they'll come," say the fools. We the wise think that the fools may
rush in but the Romanians won't, though I'm not quite sure why. Relax, I say,
nothing will happen.

But if you own a guesthouse, treat me with suspicion. Brush up your Bulgarian.
Invest in a Romanian phrasebook. That's the way to bet.

More things than we care to admit are so stupid they're true

I say there'll be no flood of Romanians. So buy a phrasebook

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Not altogether foolish: the judgments of the non-experts will often
prevail
DAVID BEBBER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron urges EUTO avoid new wave of migration

BYLINE: Michael Savage ; Charles Bremner ; Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 439 words


David Cameron will today demand strict controls on countries trying to join the
European Union in an attempt to head off a future influx of migrants from
Eastern Europe.

The Prime Minister will use a gathering of European leaders to warn that the
movement of workers from countries such as Serbia and Albania must be
significantly restricted before they are handed EU membership.

It marks the latest attempt by Mr Cameron to lobby for a revision of the EU's
free movement rules, which allow workers from poor states to migrate at will
across Europe. He hopes to make an overhaul of the rules the cornerstone of a
"new relationship" with Europe, which he intends to put to an in/out referendum
in 2017.

The Prime Minister will effectively have to hijack today's talks to raise his
concerns. European Commission sources said that the possible accession of Serbia
and Albania was not part of the agenda agreed before the summit.

"The Prime Minister will say that he is a firm supporter of enlargement, but we
have to realise that when the EU was established and the treaties were signed,
people did not expect it to bring the sort of mass-migratory movements it has,"
a diplomatic source said. "When we look at future countries joining, we should
think about how we address some of those issues." Serbia's accession to the EU
has taken a significant step forward after European foreign ministers agreed to
start membership talks next month. Albania's prospects of membership are much
farther off. It is one of the poorest European nations, with unemployment
running at about 13 per cent of the workforce. There is growing support, though,
for handing it "candidate status" - a necessary precursor to becoming an EU
state. A decision is expected next June.

Mr Cameron remains under huge pressure regarding the free movement of EU workers
to Britain, with restrictions on the migration of Bulgarian and Romanian workers
coming to an end at the start of January. His backbenchers yesterday clashed
over the impact of a possible influx in a debate in Westminster Hall.

Tobias Ellwood, an aide to the Health Secretary, Jeremy Hunt, angered right-wing
colleagues with the barbed claim that the debate had become polarised between
"little England" and the "multicultural, opendoor approach". He said that it was
important to focus on "facts and figures" rather than "some of the quite barmy
assumptions ... that have been repeated and then gain credence".

His remarks provoked a furious reaction from Mark Reckless, who said that if Mr
Ellwood put himself in the "open-door" category it would be "more a sign of his
own narcissism than anything else".

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Power is seeping from the party leaders;
Select committees, backbench MPs and anti-establishment mavericks often make the
political weather

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 985 words


There is a paradox that, as politics becomes ever more presidential, the party
leaders are losing power. David Cameron and Ed Miliband take selfies with global
statesmen and celebrities, but they are at the mercy of events at home and
abroad.

Although they are the political frontmen who must prepare for the leaders'
television debates during a general election campaign, their authority is
increasingly challenged from both within and outside their own parties.

This is partly to do with the existence of the coalition, a Government in which
influence is, by definition, diffused. Indeed Nick Clegg is trying to make a
virtue of being the kingmaker who will never inherit the throne.

That, however, is not the only explanation. At Westminster, the balance has
shifted between the Executive and Parliament. MPs, who have given up all hope of
promotion, are standing up more and more to the party machines. The Syria defeat
this summer was a shock to No 10, but it should not have been. A growing number
of concessions - from a referendum on Europe to the introduction of plain
cigarette packaging - have been forced on the Government by the threat of
rebellion. Labour MPs are not much more docile than Conservatives. Mr Miliband
faces dissent over welfare reform, public sector pay and the trade unions.

House of Commons select committees - their members now elected by fellow MPs -
have been emboldened to challenge the system. Margaret Hodge, the Labour MP who
chairs the Public Accounts Committee, is almost as influential as the Labour
leader and has a greater grip on departmental detail than many ministers. The
committee's reports regularly expose Whitehall waste and incompetence and with
her forensic scrutiny of everything from Universal Credit to BBC pay-offs, Mrs
Hodge has risen above party politics, defending the taxpayer rather than a
political tribe.

Smart MPs, burnt by the expenses scandal, know that they can no longer play by
the old rules. The most successful are turning themselves into champions of the
people over the political elite. They understand that what is seen as an
anti-politics mood is in fact hostility to the Establishment - and can be
harnessed by politicians such as Boris Johnson or Nigel Farage who present
themselves as outsiders. Success is being redefined so that it no longer depends
on holding ministerial office.

Twitter has become a tool for campaigning backbenchers to bring about change.
Stella Creasy, the Labour MP for Walthamstow, persuaded first her own party and
then the Government to clamp down on pay-day loans by running an energetic
social media campaign in her own constituency.

Robert Halfon, the Conservative backbencher, is described as "the most expensive
MP in Parliament" by the Prime Minister because of his almost single-handed
success in forcing the Chancellor to scrap rises in fuel duty. The election of
some MPs through open primaries has increased the mood of independence - they
owe more to the voters who chose them than they do to their party leaders. The
old hierarchies are breaking down.

The Prime Minister should be the most powerful politician in the land, but he
seems oddly hamstrung. Today the independent Airports Commission will publish an
interim report - but the Government is still unable to make a decision on
whether or not to build a third runway at Heathrow.

Mr Clegg has described Tory plans to cap the number of EU migrants at 75,000 a
year as "illegal and unworkable". European and human rights legislation minimise
the room for manoeuvre. Business is another power to be reckoned with - the
energy companies were heavily involved in discussions about the Autumn
Statement.

The Tory leader describes a "little black book" full of policies that have been
blocked by the Lib Dems, but it is still not entirely clear how he ended up with
a massive reorganisation of the NHS (designed by a Conservative Health
Secretary) that he neither planned nor particularly wanted. It is telling that
his most interesting interventions have been on things over which he has no
control - internet pornography and segregated seating at universities.

Although he has taken a strong moral stand, he is dependent on others to act. At
the same time, Mr Cameron has subcontracted his own political identity to
others. The man who caught the public's attention as a Conservative moderniser
has given into pressure from the right to revert to more traditional themes,
confusing the message he sends out to voters and betraying a curious loss of
confidence.

There is a strange mixture in the Labour leader too. Mr Miliband veers from
moments of courage and radicalism - with grand statements promising to remake
capitalism - to an intense political caution learnt at Gordon Brown's knee.
Although he has captured the public imagination by promising an energy price
freeze, a bank bonus tax and a housebuilding revolution, he agonises over every
decision. One Labour MP says that he is only really brave when dismantling Tony
Blair's legacy - "it's not courage, it's exorcism," he says.

There are signs that the Labour leader is backing away from a showdown with the
unions. After the vote-rigging scandal in Falkirk, he expressed his fury and
promised a transformation in the link between the party and the unions, but now
Unite, Labour's biggest financial backer, has made clear that it will not allow
its "collective voice" to be lost in the reforms. Mr Miliband should use this as
a chance to prove he can take on the "vested interests" of the Left as well as
the right, but he is said to be wavering on the scale and urgency of any change.
It is another example of power seeping away from the man at the top.

All eyes will be on the political leaders between now and 2015, but it is harder
than ever for any of them to declare, as Mr Cameron did in Afghanistan
yesterday: "Mission Accomplished."

Smart MPs champion the people over the political elite

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stella Creasy used social media to campaign against pay-day loans

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

May stalls 'positive' review of EU migration

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 474 words


A controversial review of European migration is set to be delayed until the new
year due to a row over the scale of benefits tourism.

The government study examining the impact on Britain of freedom of movement had
been due to be released yesterday as part of a group of documents assessing the
UK's relationship with the EU.

However, the entire batch has missed its deadline because Theresa May, the Home
Secretary, is unhappy with its appraisal of the impact of European migration on
Britain.

The Balance of Competences review is being compiled by civil servants in
departments across Whitehall. It was commissioned to provide supporting evidence
for David Cameron's plan to negotiate a new settlement with Brussels before
holding an in/out referendum if re-elected in 2015.

The reports are being published in four tranches. The first group, released in
July, which covered subjects including the single market and health, angered
Tory MPs eager for Britain to leave the EU by concluding that the relationship
was "broadly appropriate".

The second, which along with freedom of movement also covers trade and
investment and civil justice, is now expected to be published next month at the
earliest. The freedom of movement report is said to be causing particular
problems. It has yet to be circulated outside the department, leading to
accusations that Mrs May is deliberately stalling. Sources said that the Home
Secretary was concerned that much of the evidence submitted was broadly positive
about current rules for freedom of movement. She is said to believe that it
underestimates the problem of people coming to Britain to take advantage of the
welfare state, which is central to the Government's rhetoric about cracking down
on migrants.

Her stance has angered civil servants and Liberal Democrats. "The whole point of
the process is that you want it run according to the rules with the reports
based on the evidence, rather than trying to turn them into a political exercise
spinning the aims of one side or the other," said one Whitehall source.

Julian Huppert, the Liberal Democrat MP, said that there was strong evidence
that Britain benefited from the current rules, adding: "I hope that the report
will confirm that."

Tory MPs dismissed the review as a waste of time. Douglas Carswell, an
arch-Eurosceptic, said: "I have very little confidence in the Balance of
Competences review. " A Foreign Office source confirmed that the reports had
been delayed, saying: "We wanted to ensure that there was good, qualitative
evidence and that took a bit of time." The Home Office declined to comment.

Meanwhile, Mr Cameron has made clear that he will disappoint Tory backbenchers
urging him to appoint a dedicated negotiator to lead efforts to claw back EU
powers.

"I am happy with what I have got," the Prime Minister said during his recent
trip to China.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

May stalls review of open borders

BYLINE: Laura Pitel; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 361 words


A review of European migration is to be delayed until the new year because of a
row over benefit tourism. The government study examining the impact on Britain
of freedom of movement was due to be released yesterday as part of a group of
documents assessing the UK's relationship with the EU.

However, the batch has missed its deadline because Theresa May, the Home
Secretary, is unhappy with its appraisal of the impact of European migration on
Britain.

The Balance of Competences review is being compiled by civil servants in
departments across Whitehall. It was commissioned to provide supporting evidence
for David Cameron's plan to negotiate a new settlement with Brussels before
holding an in/out referendum if re-elected in 2015.

The reports are being published in four tranches. The first, released in July,
covered the single market and health and angered Tory MPs eager for Britain to
leave the EU by concluding that the relationship was "broadly appropriate".

The second, which along with freedom of movement also covers trade and
investment and civil justice, is expected next month. The freedom of movement
report is said to be causing particular problems. It has yet to be circulated
outside the department, leading to accusations that Mrs May is deliberately
stalling. Sources said that the Home Secretary was concerned that much of the
evidence submitted was broadly positive about current rules for freedom of
movement. She is said to believe that it underestimates the problem of people
coming to Britain to take advantage of the welfare state.

Her stance has angered civil servants and Liberal Democrats. "The whole point of
the process is that you want it run according to the rules ... rather than
trying to turn them into a political exercise spinning the aims of one side or
the other," said one Whitehall source.

Julian Huppert, the Liberal Democrat MP, said that there was strong evidence
that Britain benefited from the current rules, adding: "I hope that the report
will confirm that."

Tory MPs dismissed the review as a waste of time. Douglas Carswell, an
arch-Eurosceptic, said: "I have very little confidence in the Balance of
Competences review. "

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 7, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour must not call Euro vote, says Cable

BYLINE: David Chater

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 220 words


Vince Cable yesterday urged Ed Miliband to hold firm against calling a
referendum on membership of the European Union because the Business Secretary
believes it is the only way Britain could end up voting to leave (David Chater
writes).

If David Cameron won a clear majority at the next election and called the EU
referendum he has pledged in 2017, a vote to quit was unlikely because his
government would argue in favour of staying under new terms, Dr Cable said.

He told an economic conference in Frankfurt that he thought there was just a
five per cent chance of Britain leaving the EU.

"If you are a business person quantifying risk, I would say maybe five per cent
risk, no more," he said. "There is a risk, but it is a small risk."

The only scenario that he could see leading to socalled "Brexit" from the EU was
if Mr Miliband agreed to hold an in/out referendum, Dr Cable told The Times.

Labour has so far refused to follow the Conservative commitment to an EU ballot
while the Liberal Democrats say they will make the next EU treaty referendum an
in/out vote.

"I was trying to calm the German business audience and reassure them that we
were almost certainly likely to stay and want to work with them on the reform
agenda," the Business Secretary said. His message to Mr Miliband was to hold
firm against a referendum.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Goldman 'will cut Jobs' if Britain quits EU

BYLINE: Patrick Hosking

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 360 words


Goldman Sachs would "drastically reduce" its activities in London and move large
numbers of jobs to Frankfurt and Paris if Britain left the European Union, the
bank's co-chief executive in Europe has said.

Michael Sherwood, who has warned in the past that London's role as a leading
financial centre would be damaged if Britain quit the EU, went much further than
before in revealing how his bank was likely to downgrade its British presence.
"We would transfer a substantial part of our European business from London to a
eurozone location - the most obvious contenders being Paris and Frankfurt," he
told the German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.

The American bank uses London as its main European hub, employing 5,500 people
at Fleet Street, compared with 200 in Frankfurt and 100 in Paris.

Goldman and other international banks can sell services to all 25 markets in the
EU by virtue of being regulated in Britain, but if the UK pulled out, in theory
the banks would have to negotiate deals with regulators on a countryby-country
basis.

David Cameron has promised to hold a referendum on EU membership by the end of
2017 if the Conservatives are elected at the 2015 election. He is against
leaving, preferring to renegotiate the repatriation of some powers from
Brussels. Many business leaders argue that even the promise of a referendum is a
mistake because the uncertainty may deter foreign investors and trading
partners.

Banks detest some aspects of European influence, but are overwhelmingly in
favour of staying in because of the benefits of the single market.

Sharon Bowles, the Lib Dem chairwoman of the European Parliament Economic and
Monetary Affairs Committee, warned that other international banks would take a
similar view to Mr Sherwood. "Leaving [the EU] would mean losing unfettered
access to the single market and influence over its rules. That would inevitably
make a lot of banks reconsider whether to locate their business here, dealing a
major blow to the UK economy," she said.

A Goldman spokeswoman said last night: "This is not a decision for today or
tomorrow. All we're doing is flagging this as a potential long-term issue."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Egypt Jails one of its biggest cheerleaders

BYLINE: Bel Trew

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 341 words


The Egyptian military has turned against a prominent secular activist who was
once one of its leading supporters, arresting him after he protested against the
Army's detention of dissenters.

Ahmed Douma was a staunch supporter of last July's military coup and had been
convicted by the former Islamist President, Mohamed Morsi, of "insulting" him.
He was in custody last night in what appeared to be a widening crackdown on
dissent by General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, the head of Egypt's military, who has
effectively run the country since Mr Morsi was deposed.

"I am now present in Basateen police station. I still don't know the accusation
against me or the reason for my arrest," Mr Douma wrote on Twitter.

Mena, Egypt's state news agency, reported that Mr Douma was detained for being
part of violent clashes on Saturday.

He reported to police with Ahmed Maher, a prominent activist who is accused of
attacking a police officer and violating a new anti-protest law, which requires
permission from the Interior Ministry before staging a demonstration.

After a summer in which hundreds of Islamist supporters of Mr Morsi were jailed
or killed, activists said they expected a new wave of arrests as the Government
tightens its grip on its critics. "Now they are almost finished with the
Brotherhood, they are turning on us," said Nazly Hussein, 30, a friend of Mr
Douma who was among 14 women arrested, beaten, and left in the desert after
demonstrating outside the Shura Council in Cairo last Tuesday.

The new anti-demonstration legislation, which Human Rights Watch says gives the
security forces "carte blanche to attack protesters", has been widely condemned
abroad. Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the European Union's foreign policy chief,
voiced alarm over "the reported use of force, arrests and disproportionate
sentences".

Egypt's new draft constitution, which bolsters the military's role in civilian
politics, was presented to the interim President, Adly Mansour, yesterday. Once
approved, he has 30 days to set a date for a national referendum.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU 'exit is no threat to ties with America'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 212 words


The "unshakeable alliance" between Britain and America will endure even if the
United Kingdom leaves the EU, a leading Republican hopeful for the 2016
presidential campaign said yesterday (David Taylor writes).

Marco Rubio, one of the best known of a new generation of Republicans, said that
the two nations must continue as partners in defence of security and liberty
around the world despite fatigue after many years of global engagement in Iraq
and Afghanistan. Speaking in London, he said: "If we do not stand together in
the 21st century and instead allow our historic partnership to fade into
history, an enormous vacuum will open up that forces of darkness and evil will
gladly fill."

With Britain edging closer to a 2017 referendum on EU membership, the Florida
senator added: "Our alliance, our partnership and our affection for your nation
will continue regardless of the road you choose."

Mr Rubio told an audience at Chatham House, Central London: "Don't underestimate
[the] impact of UK's advice and counsel on America's policymakers www....no
nation on Earth has more influence on America's thinking."

In a wideranging speech, Mr Rubio criticised the deal struck with Iran to curb
its nuclear ambitions, warning that it could provoke an arms race in the Middle
East.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 30, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WESTMINSTER DIARY

BYLINE: ANN TRENEMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 462 words


KICKING THE BILL AROUND

The EU Referendum Bill limped past its third reading in the Commons although
Labour did its best to talk it out. First came yet another exhaustive speech by
Mike Gapes, above, followed by what can only be described as a discursive
exploration of 1975, the year of the last referendum, by Labour's Chris
Williamson.

"You may not believe that I was around then," he noted to disbelief, for he is
follically challenged. "My youthful appearance is down to my vegan diet!"

At this the Bill's sponsor James Wharton glared even harder at his iPad. David
Lidington, the Europe minister, dismissed most of Labour's amendments as
"otiose". The vegan labelled that as "shameful". Isn't democracy fun?

BREAKFAST AT DAVE'S

As his ever expanding waistline shows - remember that towel photo on the Cornish
beach? - our Prime Minister loves his politics on a plate and so it proved again
last week. In the summer he invited Euro rebels to breakfast and later to a
barbecue. Last week they were back at Downing Street for another munchie
session. "It's not clear whether it was a continental breakfast but it was
certainly breakfast," noted the Shadow Foreign Secretary Wee Dougie Alexander
(surely it was at least a petit DÉéÉJEUNER?). "The Prime Minister seems to be
seeking unity through a strategy of obesity. He is clearly worried if he is not
doing the cooking then he will be on the menu."

GREENING PARTY

The knives are out for Justine Greening, right, the International Development
Secretary. As you may remember, La Greening made it clear from the first that
she didn't want the job and her performance continues to prove her point. It is
no secret in Westminster that her reaction to Typhoon Haiyan has been lacking,
not least because, at first, she seemed to think it was in Indonesia and not the
Philippines. Last Wednesday, woefully after the fact, she made a statement about
all that she has done. But her Labour shadow, Jim Murphy, noted that she had
been too grand to brief him. "Even my request for a telephone conversation with
you was refused," he noted to shouts, to which he shot back: "It's not weak.
It's a fact."

OUT OF ORDER, ORDER?

Mr Speaker, the irrepressible John Bercow, made a speech about the future of
democracy in our time. He heralded what he calls a "Westminster Spring" (don't
tell Cairo) and gave himself a rather large pat on the back for his part in
rescuing the device called an "Urgent Question", which allows MPs to question
ministers on the news of the day. But all was not sweetness and light back in
the Chamber where Andrew Lansley, Leader of the House, raised a point of order,
complaining that Mr Speaker should have made the speech to, er, Parliament
itself. The Deputy Speaker, Eleanor Laing, wisely refused to get involved.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU migrants face tough new curbs on benefits;
Brussels set to challenge Cameron's crackdown EU migrants face tougher benefits
curbs

BYLINE: Elliott Political

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 828 words


Migrants from EU countries will be barred from claiming out-of-work benefits for
three months after their arrival, David Cameron announced last night as he
sought to address fears of an influx from Bulgaria and Romania.

In a package of measures aimed at making Britain a less attractive destination
for would-be benefit claimants, entitlement to jobseeker's allowance will be
limited to six months for foreign nationals.

Ministers will also set a minimum income test for non-British EU workers
applying for income support and other payments for those working part-time.
Newly arrived EU migrants looking for work will be banned from claiming housing
benefit.

And in a toughening of existing rules aimed specifically at the prospect of tens
of thousands of Bulgarians and Romanians arriving after January 1, migrants
caught begging or sleeping rough will be deported and banned from returning to
Britain for a year.

The package is expected to be challenged by the European Commission under the EU
Freedom of Movement directive, although government sources said that they were
confident that they were within the rules.

Mr Cameron set out his position for what he hopes will be a defining tussle with
Brussels, saying it was time for a new settlement that qualified the right to
travel to live and work within the EU.

"We need to face the fact that free movement has become a trigger for vast
population movements caused by huge disparities in income. That is extracting
talent out of countries that need to retain their best people and placing
pressure on communities," he said in a newspaper article. "Free movement
shouldn't be about exporting child benefit, I want to work with our European
partners to address this."

The Prime Minister added that Austria, Germany and the Netherlands had raised
concerns about the current system with the European Commission, citing child
benefit as another area overdue for reform.

Mr Cameron has won the backing of Nick Clegg for what is set to become a key
part of his renegotiation with Brussels before a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU.

Welcoming the new limits on migrants' benefits entitlement, the Lib Dem leader
said that they were sensible and reasonable. "Anyone who believes we are better
off as an outward facing nation should support these changes. If we don't get to
grips with these issues, pro-Europeans surrender the debate to the UKIPs of this
world," he added.

However, sources admitted that Mr Cameron's key measure, the threemonth delay
before EU migrants can claim out-of-work benefits, will require emergency
legislation and is unlikely to be in place by January 1, the date the
transitional controls on workers from Bulgaria and Romania are lifted.

Most of the rest of the package can be delivered without new laws, government
sources added, and so will be in place by the deadline. They concede, however,
that EU migrants who do find employment will be entitled to housing benefit.
Critics will also point out that officials will have to prove that foreign
claimants do not have a realistic prospect of employment before removing their
out-of-work benefits after six months.

The proposals, forecast by The Times last weekend, go further than many had
expected and reflect the depth of concern in No 10 at the danger of the issue
before the European Parliament elections in May, where the Conservatives face a
rout at the hands of UKIP.

Mr Cameron and the Deputy Prime Minister sought to lay the blame for the issue
at Labour's door. Mr Cameron said that the last Government made a monumental
mistake in allowing untrammelled access to Britain's labour markets to the first
wave of new EU nations in 2004 and had compounded the mistake three years later
when Romania and Bulgaria joined.

"That was the moment to address difficult questions about when to allow new
entrants full access to each others' labour markets, but the Labour Government
ducked these questions. That is why this Government extended transitional
controls on Bulgaria and Romania from five to the maximum seven years," he
added.

Ministers have avoided predicting how many migrants will arrive after the ban is
relaxed, but MigrationWatch UK has estimated that about 50,000 will travel to
the UK.

Although the Government admits that it can do nothing about the current
accession countries, Mr Cameron said he would fight for new checks for future EU
members.

One idea would be to set new member countries a "share of average EU GDP per
head before full free movement was allowed. Individual member states could be
freed to impose a cap if their inflow from the EU reached a certain number in a
single year".

The Government's nervousness about immigration has increased after an unwelcome
rise in the number of net migrants three months ago. Immigration figures due
tomorrow will show whether that trend has continued.Net migration rose to
176,000 in the year to the end of December 2012 compared with 153,000 in the
twelve months to September 2012.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 25, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP leader is accused of being a bully who sold out to party donor

BYLINE: Lucy Fisher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 505 words


Nigel Farage is a "bully" and "manipulator" who "sold the party" to the wealthy
businessman and donor Paul Sykes in 2001, according to a former UKIP colleague.

Nikki Sinclaire, MEP for the West Midlands, said that Mr Farage forced UKIP to
abandon its campaign for Britain to leave the EU, the founding tenet of the
party, and instead call for a referendum on the bidding of Mr Sykes, who offered
a £1 million donation in return.

The deal was made, Ms Sinclaire claimed, at a meeting of the party's national
executive committee in spring 2001, before the general election.

"Nigel arrived and told us Paul Sykes had an offer for us. But he said Paul had
a private jet flight to catch, so he made us decide in just five minutes whether
to accept," she said.

Mr Farage "pushed it through, even though it meant changing the party's
constitution", she added. "The UKIP conference later that year passed a motion
criticising the decision and confirming the [original] constitution." Mr Farage
also came under attack from Ms Sinclaire for being a "misogynist" with a "bad
temper". She recounted an episode at a UKIP meeting in which she claimed that he
screamed at her in front of colleagues and thumped his fists on the table,
angered by her questions concerning the party's finances.

She said: "He has a Stalinist approach ... He's purged the party of all talent
... he's threatened by intelligent people."

Ms Sinclaire, who reveals in her new book that she is transsexual, said that Mr
Farage tried to hound her out of the party, because, she claims, he disapproves
of "alternative lifestyles". UKIP and Eurosceptic Conservative MEPs also faced
criticism from Ms Sinclaire.

She denounced many for failing to turn up in Brussels for votes on motions that
threatened to diminish British sovereignty and said that most UKIP MEPs were "in
it for the money".

After working with the party for about two decades, Ms Sinclaire resigned from
UKIP in 2009 after it joined Europe of Freedom and Democracy, an international
alliance of Eurosceptic parties, which she claimed was anti-Semitic and
homophobic.

She launched her own Eurosceptic single-issue party, We Demand a Referendum, for
which she remains an MEP. She claims to work 70-hour weeks and pointed out that
she has donated £120,000 of her own money to her party since 2009. Last year,
however, she was arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud the European
Parliament, allegations she denies, and remains on bail. A spokesman for Mr
Farage and UKIP said: "UKIP has never changed its policy from day one on wanting
to leave the EU. Paul Sykes has always been of the view that we cannot criticise
the lack of democracy within the EU without offering a choice ourselves.

"Mr Farage couldn't care two hoots what people do in their personal lives."

He added that Mr Farage had become angry in the past with Ms Sinclaire because
"she refused to co-operate with her fellow MEPs and staff". Never Give Up by
Nikki Sinclaire is published today (£18.95). See www.JuniusPress.org or call
0121 333 7176.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

France is on the brink of civil war, warns Le Pen

BYLINE: France Charles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 787 words


France is on the brink of full-scale insurrection and bankruptcy after decades
of selling out to immigrants and opening its borders to foreign trade, the
leader of the French National Front has told The Times, warning that the country
would be "put to the fire and the sword".

Marine Le Pen, 45, said that it would only take a spark to tip Europe's second
economic power into virtual civil war - and that the trigger could be the
violent anti-tax demonstrations taking place in Britanny over the past month.

The National Front is now polling as the most popular political group in France
for the first time in its history.

Ms Le Pen criticises the chronic weakness of François Hollande, who is the most
unpopular French President since Charles de Gaulle after only 18 months in
office.

She said: "François Hollande is just a provincial sub-prefect who is well suited
to his place in the European Union - the boss of a technocrat government who
takes his marching orders from Brussels.

"The trouble is that France is going to be put to fire and the sword. I think we
are in a time of revolt.

The French have the feeling that François Hollande has no idea of where he is
leading them. If Brittany rises up, watch out, it could spread like wildfire."
This month, Ms Le Pen, who has voiced approval for David Cameron, co-founded a
Continent-wide anti-EU movement, teaming up with Geert Wilders, the far-Right
Dutch politician.

She says that France and the rest of the European Union was driven to bankruptcy
by the creed of free trade, the euro, open frontiers and the ethnic melting pot.
"Now that the danger no longer stems from communism, the threat is coming from
le 'mondialisme'," she says. "That means the sort of theory of the all-powerful
market which will regulate itself. It's a form of totalitarianism, a
totalitarianism of all-out commerce.

Immigration is the child of this globalism." This has nothing to do with racism,
she insists.

Predictions of revolt have long been part of the National Front's armoury, but a
series of protests, strikes and racist incidents have lately reflected an ugly
mood in France. The prefects - state officials who administer all the
départements - have just reported to Paris: "Throughout the land ... society is
in the grip of tension, exasperation and anger." Ms Le Pen's attack on Europe
and free trade underlines her shift towards the broad "sovereignist" themes that
have enabled her to strike a distance from the xenophobic discourse that ensured
that Jean-Marie Le Pen, her father and founder of the National Front, remained a
pariah. Enjoying increasing support from disaffected Socialist voters, she
insists that the party is neither left-wing nor right-wing but "patriotic".

This softened line has enabled her to team up with Mr Wilders, leader of the
Dutch Freedom Party, at the head of an alliance of anti-EU parties in Austria,
Belgium, Italy and Scandinavia. Mr Wilders, who also leads his country's most
popular party, said that their aim was "to roll back the Brussels monster" after
scoring a triumph next May in elections to the European Parliament. Ms Le Pen
talks warmly of Nigel Farage and UKIP and says that she is disappointed that
despite long talks with him, he has declined to join the new European alliance.

"He knows the National Front well," she says. "His UKIP is a young movement
which is suffering the same strong demonisation that is applied to everyone that
opposes the EU. He is not tough enough yet to resist the demonisation ... It's a
pity that UKIP is staying isolated when all the patriotic forces will be allied
together."

Mr Farage said last week that the Front was still too tainted by "anti-Semitism
and general prejudice" for UKIP to ally with them.

Ms Le Pen notes that her policy on Europe is similar to London's because she
wants to renegotiate membership terms and put the results to an in-out
referendum "exactly like David Cameron". She wants France to leave the euro and
join Britain outside the Schengen zone of open internal EU frontiers. She said
that Mr Cameron had been acting in response to the "courageous" pressure applied
by UKIP. "I feel close to Cameron in what he says, but is he going to follow
through? I'm still a little dubious."

The surge of support for Ms Le Pen's party echoes that of UKIP in Britain as
each ride a tide of hostility to "Brussels". The source of French anti-EU
feeling is in large part the opposite of Britain's. Ms Le Pen and much of France
consider that Britain and its northern allies have hijacked the Union over the
past two decades to force their free-market ideas on the Continent.

Ms Le Pen's party is polling ahead of the field before the French council
elections in March and European elections in May.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WESTMINSTER DIARY

BYLINE: ANN TRENEMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 511 words


TURN A DEAF EAR TO ED'S DESERT ISLAND CHOICES

Anyone who loves music should avoid Ed Miliband on Desert Island Discs tomorrow.
Ed's taste in music is what one well-placed insider described as "terrible".

Actually I think that's far too kind. I interviewed Ed back in 2010 during the
Labour leadership campaign and asked what kind of music he liked. There was a
long pause. "A-ha," he said. "Are you kidding?" I asked, incredulous. He wasn't.
We also know that he and his wife, Justine, have a favourite song. "Angels by
Robbie Williams is always in the CD player in the car when we get away for a
weekend," he confided on Valentine's Day. "Singing along at the top of our
voices is something we should really only share with each other." And, I
suspect, everyone listening to Radio 4 would agree.

ZOROASTRIANS MAY HOLD THE KEY TO VOTE ON EU REFERENDUM BILL

The European Referendum Bill "debate" in the Commons yesterday was an
ludicrously long ramble round the houses. The star rambler, if you can be such a
thing, was Labour's Mike Gapes who, over the course of what seemed liked hours
(because it was), explored such burning questions as the meaning of the word
"be" and ramifications for Welsh speakers.

Mr Gapes insisted the date of the vote must not clash with any religious
festivities. "The Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs, Jews, Zoroastrians, Muslims and
Christians will all need to be consulted," said Mr Gapes. At which point the
Labour backbencher Kevan Jones erupted: "The Zoroastrians!" But Mr Gapes would
not be moved. So take it from me, when it comes to a vote, the Zoroastrians will
have had their say.

MICKEY FAB'S STICK-ON 'TACHE IS A BIT OF BARE-FACED CHEEK

There are some magnificent moustaches among MPs (sadly, only male ones but I
live in hope) grown in support of the Movember movement to highlight awareness
of prostate cancer. But the Tory vice-chairman Michael Fabricant, or Micky Fab
as he is known, wasn't sure he could grow more than a bit of blonde fuzz. So
instead of the full Monty, he's going for what he calls the full fake Monty
which he has ordered from Amazon for £2.50.

"It's supposed to be a wing commander's moustache," he tells me. "NOT 'In the
Naveeee ..."

The Pringles-man-on-the-can 'tache is black, which should go splendidly with
Micky's strawcoloured hair substance that he insists is not a wig. He's debuting
the whole look at PMQs next week.

NICK'S TEAM OF QUIZ ADVISERS TROUNCES THE TORIES

It was the annual Westminster Press Gallery quiz last week and I am somewhat
shocked to report that the Lib Dems have actually won something.

Their team contained the Yetilike MP David Heath as well as two of Nick Clegg's
posse of 20 special advisers. Labour came seventh and the Conservative team
disgraced itself by tying for last and even misspelling Ronald Reagan's name.
Amazingly, the Tories did not know the answer to this one: "What was the name of
the street in Brixton where John Major pointed out the Enterprise Pub in the
famous 1992 Party Political broadcast?"* If they can't win that, whither the
general election?

*Coldharbour Lane

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Glafcos Clerides;
Lives remembered

BYLINE: Glafcos Clerides

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 88

LENGTH: 355 words


Sir Edward Clay (British Deputy High Commissioner to Cyprus, 1985-89; High
Commissioner 1999-2001) writes: Your obituary of Glafcos Clerides (Nov 19) is
ungenerous in appraising the last years of his efforts to reach an accommodation
on Cyprus' future as a State. It was the divisions on the Greek-Cypriot side
that scuppered an agreement in 2004, just after Clerides had stepped down as
President. The Turkish-Cypriots endorsed the plan by a large margin in a
referendum. In a parallel referendum, however, the Greek-Cypriots voted it down,
thanks to the replacement of Clerides by the rejectionist President Papadopoulos
but more importantly to the betrayal by the large Communist Party (AKEL) of its
longstanding support for the type of arrangements the plan embodied.

In addition, your slighting reference to the President's approach to foreign
policy underestimates the skills and tenacity of Clerides and his team in
placing his stake in the ground and making larger powers - the UN and the EU -
walk round it. In the case of the EU, the Europeans made a significant error in
offering prematurely an unconditional promise of membership to Cyprus. This was
the formula agreed by the European Council at Helsinki in 1999: "The European
Council underlines that a political settlement will facilitate the accession of
Cyprus to the European Union. If no settlement has been reached by the
completion of the accession negotiations, the Council's decision on accession
will be made without the above being a precondition. In this the Council will
take account of all relevant factors."

The Greek-Cypriots rejoiced over the middle sentence but noted - and attacked -
the last ("the Helsinki tail"). They need not have fretted: they predictably got
their membership anyway. So the opportunity to maximise benign European leverage
over Cyprus, and to avoid importing the inter-communal problem into the EU, was
lost.

@If you would like to add a personal view or recollection to a published
obituary, you can send your contribution by post to Times Obituaries, 3 Thomas
More Square, London E98 1TT, or by e-mail to tributes@thetimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron faces voter fury over immigrants;
Border controls top list of concerns, says poll Cameron faces voter fury over
immigration

BYLINE: Francis Elliott ; Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 837 words


David Cameron is to announce new limits on migrants' rights to benefits as he
struggles to meet overwhelming demand for action on immigration from the
European Union.

The scale of the challenge facing Mr Cameron is revealed in a survey of voters'
priorities before he attempts to claw back powers from Brussels. Tightening
border controls tops the wishlist for renegotiation before a referendum on
Britain's membership by a huge margin, according to YouGov polling for The
Times. It leads the next two highest ranked priorities - human rights reform and
expanding non-EU trade - by a margin of 30 per cent.

Ministers are braced for a fierce public backlash when Britain opens its borders
to jobseekers from Bulgaria and Romania on January 1. They are unwilling to put
a figure on the number expected to head to the UK seeking work, but Mark Harper,
the Immigration Minister, said it would not be a repeat of 2004 when within two
years almost 600,000 East Europeans came to work.

MigrationWatch UK has estimated that about 50,000 Romanians and Bulgarians a
year will come to Britain when curbs on them entering the jobs market are
lifted.

The threat of a rout by UKIP in elections to the Europe Parliament next May is
heaping pressure on the Conservatives to show that voters' worries are being
addressed.

Mr Cameron has avoided giving details of the specific powers he will try to win
back before the referendum on Britain's membership, promised by 2017, saying
only that it would include a clampdown on "welfare tourism".

However, the Prime Minister is to start fleshing out that commitment next week
with measures to limit benefit entitlements of EU citizens, according to senior
government figures. The Government is engaged in a stand-off with the European
Commission over moves to limit migrants' access to child benefit, child tax
credit and some forms of job-seekers' allowance for the first 12 months after
arrival.

Mr Cameron, however, is expected to argue that the EU's freedom of trade
directive should be loosened to allow the further extension of time limits as
well as new contributions eligibility tests on benefits. Migrants must also be
actively looking for work and have a realistic prospect of getting a job under
planned restrictions to jobseeker's allowance.

That is unlikely to satisfy many, however, since most voters want Britain to
pull out of the directive altogether. Some 52 per cent said they would be
willing to sacrifice their own ability to live and work in other EU states as
the price for closing Britain's borders.

Today's polling shows ministers should focus on low skilled migrants and those
looking for low-paid work if they want to meet voters' concerns. Attitudes to
students, highly skilled workers and even asylum seekers are significantly less
hostile, suggesting the public takes a nuanced view of EU immigration. Worries
about access to public services outstrip pressure on housing, jobs or crime
levels among those asked about its negative effects.

Benefit entitlement across Europe is notoriously complex and has gradually
expanded as a result of court judgments. Think-tanks such as Open Europe,
however, have suggested a range of changes to welfare entitlement that wouldn't
require treaty change. These include changing the rules on child benefit to
require children to be living in the host country to be eligible.

Ministers are awaiting next week's immigration figures to see if they have
reversed an upward trend in the numbers. Figures published three months ago
showed that the overall fall in net migration - the difference between those
arriving and those leaving - had halted. Net migration rose to 176,000 in the
year to the end of December 2012 compared with 153,000 in the twelve months to
September 2012. The Office for National Statistics said: "This increase suggests
[that] the decline seen in net migration on a quarterly basis since the year
ending June 2011 has not continued." The halt in the fall in net migration was a
result of fewer British and EU citizens leaving the UK. Mr Cameron and Theresa
May, the Home Secretary, have pledged to reduce net migration to less than
100,000 by the election. The difficulty they face in driving down net migration
is that they can do very little to curb immigration from the EU.

Legislation paving the way for the 2017 referendum is being pushed through
Parliament by the Tory MP James Wharton. Yesterday a bid by another Tory, Adam
Afriye, to hold the vote before the election was defeated in the Commons. Just
14 other MPs backing him.

Q Which, if any, of the following do you think are the most NEGATIVE effects of
immigration? Please tick up to three

Increased pressure on public services 49%

Increased pressure on and shortage of housing 42%

Immigrants taking jobs that could be filled by British people 36%

Community tensions between racial groups 30%

Britain becoming less British 24%

Increased crime 23%

Vulnerability to terrorism or extremism 20%

Downwards pressure on wages 16%

Other 1%

None - no negative effects 3%

Don't know 6%

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 14, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

A campaign to leave the EU is taking shape;
Those who want Britain to become an independent nation again are preparing a
populist plan of action

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1012 words


Idon't agree with Tony Benn about many things but he was right about what has
become the European Union. For him, Like many on the Old Left, he objected to
membership of the EU because he was first and foremost a democrat.

When, 40 years ago, he warned that membership of the EU would mean "the end of
our democratically elected Parliament as the supreme law making body in the
United Kingdom", he was accused of exaggeration. But the passage of time has
only vindicated him.

The Members of Parliament we elect today are not really in charge. They don't
have full powers to decide who comes into Britain to live or work; they can't
cut VAT on energy bills; they can't protect small businesses or some of our
principal industries from destructive regulations; they can't stop the
overfishing of Britain's territorial waters. Bureaucrats and commissioners in
Brussels, central bankers in Frankfurt and quasi-judges in Strasbourg - many of
them with little or no legal training - are more powerful than many government
ministers in Whitehall.

You will have guessed by now that I'll be voting to leave the EU if I ever get
the chance. My mind is not going to be swayed by warnings from what used to be
called the Confederation of British Industry that we might be slightly worse off
if we don't stay under the jurisdiction of the Eurocrats who brought us the
eurozone, the Common Agricultural Policy and the unaudited EU accounts.

I don't regard myself and other Outers as Eurosceptics but as democrats. I want
Britain to be the same as big countries like America and India and much smaller
countries like Australia and Switzerland. I want us to be a self-governing
nation that can "kick the bastards out" whenever our rulers fail to deliver.

But rant over. It's becoming clear to me, as it was clear to Tony Benn from the
1975 referendum, that most people don't take such absolutist views of these
things. Most voters will be influenced by warnings from the likes of Nissan that
jobs will be at risk if Britain leaves the EU. They'll worry that global
businesses will redirect their investments towards countries inside the European
fortress. Those scare tactics have been deployed by Stay-Inners in the past
fortnight and there are early signs that they might be working.

New YouGov polling finds that the small lead enjoyed by the Get-Outers (who were
ahead by about 10 per cent until recently) has evaporated. Now 39 per cent would
now vote to remain in the EU as it is currently constituted and 39 per cent
would leave. More worryingly for Outers, 51 per cent would stay in if Cameron
successfully renegotiated our relationship with Europe. Support for leaving
would then slump to 25 per cent.

That "if" is, of course a very big, MEP-expense-account-sized conjunction. David
Cameron may hope to renegotiate Britain's terms of membership but he may fail.
EU leaders may send him home with nothing or next to nothing. In the event of
such a snub anti-EU sentiment might soar. The likelihood, however, is that
European leaders will grant just about enough concessions to allow him to
proclaim "game, set and match" for Britain. Germany, in particular, is keen to
keep Britain inside the Club. It sees us as an ally in preventing the EU
becoming as economically dirigiste as France and much of southern Europe would
like.

The other big "if", of course, is that David Cameron might not be Prime Minister
after May 2015 and, at least until now, Ed Miliband has declined to match the
Tories' referendum promise. If Cameron stays in No 10, however, he'll be subject
to enormous lobbying from his own party. At least a third of Tory MPs support
leaving the EU and will demand a scale of renegotiation that he won't be able to
deliver. Even if he wins limited renegotiation and wins a referendum, he risks
his party being torn asunder.

If the In campaign has all the main party leaders, most newspapers, foreign
governments and big business on its side, the Out campaign still has hope and
the beginnings of a populist plan.

Voters will be told - using research from the Taxpayers' Alliance - that every
household will save up to £400 each year from their grocery bills if Britain
leaves the EU's Common Agricultural Policy. And they'll be told that Britain
will gain control of its borders and will be able to stop people from Bulgaria
and Romania working here. (By two to one, voters think that EU immigration
policies hurt Britain.) The Outers' third most resonant message is likely to
concern fuel bills. Out of the EU Britain will be able to determine its own
environmental policies and scrap ineffective green subsidies.

In contrast to the 1975 referendum campaign the Out campaign will also have
money. Some of Britain's richest business leaders, including the likes of the
mobile phone billionaire John Caudwell, are likely to provide financial muscle.
There will also be a broader range of politicians arguing for exit. Crucial to
the Out campaign having any hope of victory will be the enlistment of key
leftwing voices and this presents something of a dilemma for David Cameron.

The renegotiation that many of his own backbenchers most want will include a
rolling-back of employment protections. But such a rolling-back may lead many on
the Left to revive their old Bennite views on Europe. The trade union movement
never properly signed up to Brussels until Jacques Delors made his historic
speech to the TUC in 1988. Battered by what then seemed like neverending
Thatcherism they correctly saw the EU as a backdoor way of gaining new powers.
But what if Cameron erodes what Delors called "social Europe"? Paul Kenny,
General Secretary of the GMB union, has already warned that he'll campaign for
exit in such circumstances.

There are four years until the likely date of a possible in/out referendum and
while the early polling suggests that withdrawlists have a mountain to climb
they are beginning to put together a plan. And it's a pretty decent plan, too.

The UK should be a self-governing nation, like the US and India

By two to one, voters think EU immigration policies hurt Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 14, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A campaign to leave the EU is taking shape;
Those who want Britain to become an independent nation again are preparing a
populist plan of action

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1007 words


Idon't agree with Tony Benn about many things but he was right about what has
become the European Union. Like many on the Old Left, he objected to membership
of the EU because he was first and foremost a democrat.

When, 40 years ago, he warned that membership of the EU would mean "the end of
our democratically elected Parliament as the supreme law making body in the
United Kingdom", he was accused of exaggeration. But the passage of time has
vindicated him.

The Members of Parliament we elect today are not really in charge. They don't
have full powers to decide who comes into Britain to live or work; they can't
cut VAT on energy bills; they can't protect small businesses or some of our
principal industries from destructive regulations; they can't stop the
overfishing of Britain's territorial waters. Bureaucrats and commissioners in
Brussels, central bankers in Frankfurt and quasi-judges in Strasbourg - many of
them with little or no legal training - are more powerful than many government
ministers in Whitehall.

You will have guessed by now that I'll be voting to leave the EU if I ever get
the chance. My mind is not going to be swayed by warnings from what used to be
called the Confederation of British Industry that we might be slightly worse off
if we don't stay under the jurisdiction of the Eurocrats who brought us the
eurozone, the Common Agricultural Policy and the unaudited EU accounts.

I don't regard myself and other Outers as Eurosceptics but as democrats. I want
Britain to be the same as big countries like America and India and much smaller
countries like Australia and Switzerland. I want us to be a self-governing
nation that can "kick the bastards out" whenever our rulers fail to deliver.

But rant over. It's becoming clear to me, as it was clear to Tony Benn from the
1975 referendum, that most people don't take such absolutist views of these
things. Most voters will be influenced by warnings from the likes of Nissan that
jobs will be at risk if Britain leaves the EU. They'll worry that global
businesses will redirect their investments towards countries inside the European
fortress. Those scare tactics have been deployed by Stay-Inners in the past
fortnight and there are early signs that they might be working.

New YouGov polling finds that the small lead enjoyed by the Get-Outers (who were
ahead by about 10 per cent until recently) has evaporated. Now 39 per cent would
vote to remain in the EU as it is currently constituted and 39 per cent would
leave. More worryingly for Outers, 51 per cent would stay in if Cameron
successfully renegotiated our relationship with Europe. Support for leaving
would then slump to 25 per cent.

That "if" is, of course a very big, MEP-expense-account-sized conjunction. David
Cameron may hope to renegotiate Britain's terms of membership but he may fail.
EU leaders may send him home with nothing or next to nothing. In the event of
such a snub anti-EU sentiment might soar. The likelihood, however, is that
European leaders will grant just about enough concessions to allow him to
proclaim "game, set and match" for Britain. Germany, in particular, is keen to
keep Britain inside the Club. It sees us as an ally in preventing the EU
becoming as economically dirigiste as France and much of southern Europe would
like.

The other big "if", of course, is that David Cameron might not be Prime Minister
after May 2015 and, at least until now, Ed Miliband has declined to match the
Tories' referendum promise. If Cameron stays in No 10, however, he'll be subject
to enormous lobbying from his own party. At least a third of Tory MPs support
leaving the EU and will demand a scale of renegotiation that he won't be able to
deliver. Even if he wins limited renegotiation and wins a referendum, he risks
his party being torn asunder.

If the In campaign has all the main party leaders, most newspapers, foreign
governments and big business on its side, the Out campaign still has hope and
the beginnings of a populist plan.

Voters will be told - using research from the Taxpayers' Alliance - that every
household will save up to £400 each year from their grocery bills if Britain
leaves the EU's Common Agricultural Policy. And they'll be told that Britain
will gain control of its borders and will be able to stop people from Bulgaria
and Romania working here. (By two to one, voters think that EU immigration
policies hurt Britain.) The Outers' third most resonant message is likely to
concern fuel bills. Out of the EU Britain will be able to determine its own
environmental policies and scrap ineffective green subsidies.

In contrast to the 1975 referendum the Out campaign will also have money. Some
of Britain's richest business leaders, including the likes of the mobile phone
billionaire John Caudwell, are likely to provide financial muscle. There will
also be a broader range of politicians arguing for exit. Crucial to the Out
campaign having any hope of victory will be the enlistment of key leftwing
voices and this presents something of a dilemma for David Cameron.

The renegotiation that many of his own backbenchers most want will include a
rolling-back of employment protections. But such a rolling-back may lead many on
the Left to revive their old Bennite views on Europe. The trade union movement
never properly signed up to Brussels until Jacques Delors made his historic
speech to the TUC in 1988. Battered by what then seemed like neverending
Thatcherism they correctly saw the EU as a backdoor way of gaining new powers.
But what if Cameron erodes what Delors called "social Europe"? Paul Kenny,
General Secretary of the GMB union, has already warned that he'll campaign for
exit in such circumstances.

There are four years until the likely date of a possible in/out referendum and
while early polling suggests that withdrawlists have a mountain to climb they
are beginning to put together a plan. And it's a pretty decent plan, too.

The UK should be a self-governing nation, like the US and India

By two to one, voters think EU immigration policies hurt Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU and sovereignty;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 170 words


Sir, Digby Jones is right in his analysis of Britain's position within, or
outwith, the European Union ("Either we get huge EU reform - or we leave", Nov
7). If, in a subsequent referendum, Britain should vote to leave the EU it need
have no fears about reassuming an independent position on Europe. Its future
stance should be similar to that of Canada's relationship with its neighbour,
the US: close, highly co-operative across virtually all spheres of common
interest, friendly and harmonious, and with mutually advantageous trade
agreements - yet one of complete sovereign independence with regard to economic,
legal and judicial, and border-control issues.

The increasing and bewildering intrusion into national life of what has
developed from a Common Market into the EU (with its openended aim of "ever
closer union" and all that this implies) is seemingly contrary both to the
wishes and to the interests of the population of the UK and, as such, can only
be properly tested in a referendum.

william pender Salisbury

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories throw paper planes as Labour grounds EU Bill

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 522 words


Labour tried to scupper a Bill to give the public a say on British membership of
the EU yesterday, as Tory MPs threw a paper aircraft at each other in the
Commons chamber.

Labour MPs raised a series of procedural and constitutional concerns about the
backbench Bill, such as whether the people of Gibraltar should be given the
right to vote. As a result, the legislation made less progress than hoped by its
backers, with Edward Leigh and Bob Stewart, both Tory MPs, at one point throwing
a paper plane at one another.

The Opposition was accused of wanting to "gag the British people" by Adam
Afriyie, the Conservative MP. He also warned that his party risked losing the
2015 election if it failed to bring forward the proposed referendum from 2017 to
2014. "I say in all humility and kindness to my colleagues that, by chasing the
EU referendum dream for 2017, we risk losing one in 2014 and throwing away the
2015 election," he said. "I urge every MP to listen to their constituents and to
try, through one of the amendments, to grant the British people a referendum in
2014."

The MP for Windsor's amendment was not voted upon amid predictions that he will
only get the backing of between five and 20 MPs.

The debate came as Carlos Ghosn, the head of Nissan, told the BBC that his
company could withdraw from Britain if the UK left the EU. "If anything has to
change we [would] need to reconsider our strategy and our investments for the
future," he said. Were Nissan to leave, 6,500 Jobs at the company's Sunderland
site would be lost.

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, was dismissive of the Bill, which was promised
by David Cameron Just before local elections in May to draw support away from
UKIP.

"I think what we see today is the Conservative Party talking to itself about
Europe when actually what they should be doing is talking to the country about
the most important issue that people are facing, which is the cost of living
crisis," he said.

Claire Perry, the government whip, accused the Opposition on Twitter of "playing
silly buggers". The Labour MP Graham Jones responded during a Twitter
conversation that he did not "appreciate attempt to physically pick me up nor
whips threats".

The issue of Europe prompted a ferocious clash between Nigel Farage, the UKIP
leader, and Anna Soubry, the Conservative Defence Minister, on Question Time the
night before yesterday's debate. She described Mr Farage as a "scaremonger" who
"put fear in people's hearts" over immigration.

Mr Farage, who had warned on the BBC programme about a possible influx of
Romanians and Bulgarians when controls on their movements into Britain are
lifted next year, said yesterday that Ms Soubry's attack showed that the
"political class" were getting concerned about UKIP.

He said he had been comparing the Government's apparent lack of concern about
the issue with the Labour Government's prediction that only 13,000 would move to
Britain from Poland and other eastern European countries after 2004 when EU
freedom of movement rules came into force. In the end, more than one million
arrived.

The referendum Bill will return before the Commons on November 22.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Edward Leigh and Bob Stewart kept themselves amused

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Daily Universal Register

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 45 words


London: MPs in the House of Commons discuss the EU Referendum Bill Russia: The
King and Queen of the Netherlands meet President Putin France: President
Hollande hosts an annual meeting with the heads of the International Monetary
Fund, World Bank and World Trade Organisation

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 7, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Either we get huge EU reform - or we leave;
Cameron winning minor concessions will not free us from the European millstone

BYLINE: Digby Jones

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 862 words


In UK businesses, small and large, there are definite signs of greater economic
activity. The not-sogood news is that we still have it all to do. This is Asia's
century and becoming globally competitive is a Herculean work-in-progress.
What's more, we belong to a European club that is holding us back and if it is
unreformed it will render the task impossible.

Some argue that discussing EU membership is a distraction from the task of
economic recovery. They are wrong. The nature of our membership is intrinsically
linked to our chances of making our recovery sustainable. We must not delay
addressing it.

Although its 530 million people have enJoyed nearly 70 years of uninterrupted
peace, the EU looks set to fall at the first hurdle in the Global Competitive
Stakes. It is simply not fit for purpose.

We are faced with an unelected ruling elite in Brussels that still can't balance
its books, where the culture is still one of marching valiantly towards 1970 and
where criticism is condescendingly seen as heretical.

The dead hand of EU-based employment regulation and state subsidies has been a
Job destroyer for years. Money that should be invested in education is instead
sunk in the Common Agricultural Policy. Brussels spends billions of euros on
overseas aid yet debilitates those same developing countries with tariffs that
prevent them creating sustainable economies that would extinguish the need for
aid in the first place.

In some rival countries within the EU, compliance with uncompetitive regulation,
from environmental standards to procurement, from financial markets to fishing,
is almost voluntary. There is no EU-wide inspection and compliance structure.
The good guys comply and become uncompetitive. The single market is vital, but
after decades of haggling there is still no single market in services. This is
particularly disadvantageous to Britain, which has Europe's largest services
sector.

For the good of every single person living in the 28 member states of the EU,
all this must change, and change quickly. Globalisation does not take prisoners.
This should not be about the UK seeking opt-outs and exemptions Just for us.
Fundamental reform is not Just about helping an unemployed kid in Manchester or
Cardiff but Madrid and Lisbon too.

The alternative to continent-wide reform is permanently high unemployment,
especially among the young. The resulting social dislocation will make Greece's
current woes look like a walk in the park. The worrying rise of the Far Right in
many member states, including France, has an excellent recruiting sergeant: mass
youth unemployment and a perception that economic policies are implemented by
unaccountable bureaucrats.

If Germany and the UK really want to lead a Europe that can give Asia a run for
its money, then let us have independent enforcement of regulation, massive
reform of fisheries and agriculture, huge investment in Europe-wide technical
establishments, abolition of trade protectionism and serious slimming of the
bureaucracy in Brussels. But will it happen? I fear not. My experience leads me
to believe that the chances of certain big countries changing things is nil.

The Prime Minister's plan to negotiate reform and then ask the British people to
affirm or reJect continuing membership would create a long period of uncertainty
for business. It would be better to hold a referendum as soon as possible and
end the uncertainty. David Cameron will get minor adJustments here and there but
he won't get the sort of reform upon which our future membership should be
conditional. If anyone, the CBI included, thinks that fundamental reform is on
the EU agenda, they are deluding themselves.

Leaving is not, as some pretend, such an unattractive option. There is a lie put
about that three million Jobs depend on our continued membership. Not true.
There would be free trade agreements in place the day after our exit. Germany
would demand no less. We would be free to negotiate, at more than the current
glacial pace, free trade agreements with the rest of the world.

We are told that we would have to comply with EU regulations without having any
influence over their design. What influence? We have secured a nudge here, a sop
there, a delay in implementation perhaps, but no real, hard influence. Why is
the UK with its enormous market share of EU financial services faced with so
much uncompetitive regulation forced upon it by Brussels? Dubai, Shanghai and
Mumbai are laughing in anticipation.

We certainly must put the option of leaving on the negotiating table. The tactic
of promising to stay in the EU regardless of what the Prime Minister can
negotiate is insane. When did anyone start negotiations with "It's OK, we don't
mean it, we will do what you want anyway" as an opening gambit? Staying in a
reformed Europe has to be the right course, but should we stay in the current
mess? Frankly, our nation Just can't afford to if we are to provide our
grandchildren with a globally competitive economy worthy of the name.

Digby Jones is a former director-general of the CBI and was Minister for Trade
and Investment, 2007-08

We need a referendum as soon as possible to end the uncertainty

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The alternative to radical EU reform is permanently high unemployment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 7, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If we can't change EU we must leave, says ex-CBI chief

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 557 words


Britain must consider the option of leaving the European Union because David
Cameron is unlikely to secure anything more than minor adJustments to the
relationship, the former head of the CBI says today.

Writing in The Times, Lord Jones of Birmingham, the former director-general of
Britain's biggest business lobbying organisation, calls the body he once ran
"deluded" if it thinks that fundamental reform is possible.

He writes that Britain ought to be asking for independent enforcement of
regulation, "massive" reform of fisheries and agriculture, huge investment in
Europe-wide technical establishments, abolition of trade protectionism and a
stripping out of Brussels bureaucracy.

"But will it happen? I fear not. My experience leads me to believe that the
chances of certain big countries changing things is nil," he says.

The former Trade and Investment Minister in Gordon Brown's government goes on to
call Mr Cameron "insane" for promising to stay in the EU regardless of how the
renegotiation progresses. "When did anyone start negotiations with 'It's OK, we
don't mean it, we will do what you want anyway' as an opening gambit? "Staying
in a reformed Europe has to be the right course, but should we stay in the
current mess? Frankly, our nation Just can't afford to if we are to provide our
grandchildren with a globally competitive economy." Lord Jones's intervention
comes days before the Commons is due to vote on a Bill legislating for a
referendum on British membership of the European Union by 2017. The Tories are
expecting to back the Private Member's Bill of James Wharton in overwhelming
numbers with between Just 5 and 20 rebels.

It will pass despite attempts by some Labour MPs, such as Mike Gapes, to use
procedural tricks to scupper its passage.

Mr Gapes has already put down 86 amendments to the EU Referendum Bill, even
though the Bill itself is only one page long.

However, there are also concerns in government that the Bill, which has the
backing of the Prime Minister, may fall when it reaches the House of Lords next
year, which would leave a Tory party, currently experiencing a period of rare
unity on Europe, in disarray.

Lord Jones attacks the scare tactics of those who want to stay in the EU. He
calls the Government's claim that three million Jobs depend on our continued
membership a "lie", adding: "Leaving is not, as some pretend, such an
unattractive option." He writes: "There is a lie put about that. Not true. There
would be free-trade agreements in place the day after our exit. Germany would
demand no less. We would be free to negotiate, at more than the current glacial
pace, free-trade agreements with the rest of the world." Lord Jones backs the
Prime Minister's decision to seek agreement among all 28 members, warning that
the alternative would push voters into the arms of extremist parties.

"This should not be about the UK seeking opt-outs and exemptions Just for us.
Fundamental reform is not Just about helping an unemployed kid in Manchester or
Cardiff but Madrid and Lisbon too. The alternative to Continent-wide reform is
permanently high unemployment," he says.

"The worrying rise of the far Right in many member states, including France, has
an excellent recruiting sergeant: mass youth unemployment and a perception that
economic policies are implemented by unaccountable bureaucrats."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 2, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Economics;
Need to know

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 187 words


Manufacturing: New export orders rose at the fastest pace in more than two years
last month, spurring hopes that the economy may have started to rebalance away
from the dominant services sector. Companies reported improved inflows of new
work from Asia, the US, mainland Europe, Ireland, the Middle East and Russia,
according to the closely watched Markit/ CIPS survey of the manufacturing
sector. Page 75 Remuneration: Before a national referendum in Switzerland on
November 24, campaigners are holding a rally in Zurich today in support of their
calls for executive pay in every company to be limited to 12 times the salary of
the lowest earning employee. Page 71 Eurozone: Financial markets believe it is
now a case of when and not if the European Central Bank will lower interest
rates to protect the embryonic economic recovery. Following the fall in eurozone
inflation to 0.7 per cent last month, with unemployment remaining high, the
one-year Eonia - the rate at which European banks lend to each other - has
fallen to its lowest level since July as the money markets price in an easing in
monetary policy by the ECB.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 2, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Economics;
Need to know

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 187 words


Manufacturing: New export orders rose at the fastest pace in more than two years
last month, spurring hopes that the economy may have started to rebalance away
from the dominant services sector. Companies reported improved inflows of new
work from Asia, the US, mainland Europe, Ireland, the Middle East and Russia,
according to the closely watched Markit/ CIPS survey of the manufacturing
sector. Page 67 Remuneration: Before a national referendum in Switzerland on
November 24, campaigners are holding a rally in Zurich today in support of their
calls for executive pay in every company to be limited to 12 times the salary of
the lowest earning employee. Page 63 Eurozone: Financial markets believe it is
now a case of when and not if the European Central Bank will lower interest
rates to protect the embryonic economic recovery. Following the fall in eurozone
inflation to 0.7 per cent last month, with unemployment remaining high, the
one-year Eonia - the rate at which European banks lend to each other - has
fallen to its lowest level since July as the money markets price in an easing in
monetary policy by the ECB.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 1, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron stance 'will fail to take back powers from EU'

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 232 words


David Cameron will fail to take back powers from Brussels under his plans to opt
out of almost a hundred European Union law-and-order measures, a Commons
committee warns today.

His plans may even result in a net flow of powers to the EU rather than back to
the UK, the Home Affairs select committee said. The findings of the committee on
the proposal to opt out from a raft of EU law-and-order measures are a blow to
the Government as it seeks to persuade the public that it can get powers back
from Brussels.

In July, Theresa May told MPs that her plans to opt out of around 130 measures
and opt back in to 35 were "first and foremost" about bringing powers back home.
The committee's report, however, said that many of the powers the UK is planning
to opt out of related to existing criminal offences in the Britain or were
measures that were defunct or not relevant.

It concluded: "If the Government proceeds with the opt in as proposed, we note
that it will not result in any repatriation of power. Indeed the increased
jurisdiction of the European Court of justice may result in a net flow of powers
in the opposite direction."

Downing Street denied that the report's findings were a bad omen for Mr
Cameron's promise to repatriate a raft of powers from Brussels before holding an
in/out referendum. "The Prime Minister believes he is taking the right
approach," his official spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 1, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron stance 'will fail to take back powers from EU'

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 231 words


David Cameron will fail to take back powers from Brussels under his plans to opt
out of almost a hundred European Union law-and-order measures, a Commons
committee warns today.

His plans may even result in a net flow of powers to the EU rather than back to
the UK, the Home Affairs select committee said. The findings of the committee on
the proposal to opt out from a raft of EU law-and-order measures are a blow to
the Government as it seeks to persuade the public that it can get powers back
from Brussels.

In July, Theresa May told MPs that her plans to opt out of around 130 measures
and opt back in to 35 were "first and foremost" about bringing powers back home.
The committee's report, however, said that many of the powers the UK is planning
to opt out of related to existing criminal offences in Britain or were measures
that were defunct or not relevant.

It concluded: "If the Government proceeds with the opt-in as proposed, we note
that it will not result in any repatriation of power. Indeed the increased
Jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice may result in a net flow of powers
in the opposite direction."

Downing Street denied that the report's findings were a bad omen for Mr
Cameron's promise to repatriate a raft of powers from Brussels before holding an
in/out referendum. "The Prime Minister believes he is taking the right
approach," his official spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Britain in the EU? When did that happen?

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 239 words


David Cameron believed he had hit on a solution to the vexed question of EU
membership with his pledge for an in-out referendum. Now he faces an unexpected
problem: voters don't know if their country is in the EU or not.

The news came in a report by the Electoral Commission, which is required by law
to examine referendum questions before they go to the nation.

The Prime Minister has promised that, if he is re-elected in 2015, he will
negotiate a new relationship with Brussels before putting it to a nationwide
vote. A Private Member's Bill making its way through Parliament will enshrine Mr
Cameron's pledge in law. The Electoral Commission considered the wording
contained in the draft legislation, which asks: "Do you think the United Kingdom
should be a member of the European Union?" It discovered that Britain's 40-year
membership of the EU had passed some people by. "The phrase 'be a member' in the
question was felt by many to imply that they are being asked whether the United
Kingdom should become a member, rather than if it should remain a member," the
report said. "This caused some participants to think that they were being asked
to vote on the United Kingdom joining the European Union.

"The research found ... some participants having no knowledge of the European
Union, or the status of UK membership of the EU." It recommended that the
question be changed to ask whether Britain should "remain" a member of the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain in the EU? When did that happen?

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words


David Cameron believed he had hit on a solution to the vexed question of EU
membership with his pledge for an in-out referendum. Now he faces an unexpected
problem: voters don't know if their country is in the EU or not.

The news came in a report by the Electoral Commission, which is required by law
to examine referendum questions before they go to the nation.

The Prime Minister has promised that, if he is re-elected in 2015, he will
negotiate a new relationship with Brussels before putting it to a nationwide
vote. A Private Member's Bill making its way through Parliament will enshrine Mr
Cameron's pledge in law.

The Electoral Commission considered the wording contained in the draft
legislation, which asks: "Do you think the United Kingdom should be a member of
the European Union?"

It discovered that Britain's 40-year membership of the EU had passed some people
by. "The phrase 'be a member' in the question was felt by many to imply that
they are being asked whether the United Kingdom should become a member, rather
than if it should remain a member," the report said. "This caused some
participants to think that they were being asked to vote on the United Kingdom
joining the European Union.

"The research found ... some participants having no knowledge of the European
Union, or the status of UK membership of the EU." It recommended that the
question be changed to ask whether Britain should "remain" a member of the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Voters in dark over EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 58 words


While David Cameron has promised a referendum to address Britain's membership of
the EU, many voters do not know that the country is already a member. A report
by the Electoral Commission, which must approve referendum questions, said: "The
research found ... some participants having no knowledge of the European Union,
or the status of UK membership".

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 25, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Merkel phone hacking row could stop EU free-trade talks with US

BYLINE: Sam Coates ; Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 683 words


The global spying row that has taken over a summit of European leaders in
Brussels is jeopardising a key plank of Britain's referendum strategy.

A free trade deal between the United States and the EU could become a casualty
of the anger over claims that the US Administration has been monitoring Angela
Merkel's mobile phone. The row could also strengthen calls for tougher data
protection laws, which are opposed by David Cameron.

Arriving in Brussels, Mrs Merkel said that it was "really not on" for friends to
spy on each other. Speaking hours after her Government summoned the US
ambassador in Berlin, the German Chancellor told reporters: "It's not just about
me, but about every German citizen. We need to have trust in our allies and
partners, and this trust must now be established once again."

A key ally of Mrs Merkel announced that Germany might force the suspension of
free trade talks between the United States and the European Union. Gunther
Krichbaum, head of the Bundestag's EU committee, called on the talks to be
halted. He told the BBC that wire-tapping was a scandal and that we "need to put
the transatlantic trade agreement on hold".

The Prime Minister has made the trade deal an important part of his effort to
convince Britons to stay in the EU ahead of the 2017 referendum, launching it
with President Obama earlier in the year at a summit in Northern Ireland.

The EU has been negotiating with Washington to create what would be the world's
largest free trade area, with more than 800 million inhabitants. Mr Cameron
wants to hold it up as an example of the benefits the EU can bring for Britain.
A Downing Street spokesman said that Britain would try to head off any attempt
to scupper the deal.

However, other European politicians supported Germany. Martin Schulz, the
President of the European Parliament, said of negotiations: "I believe that we
have to interrupt again."

France also signalled support, but Fredrik Reinfeldt,Swedish Prime Minister,
said that the affair would not affect the talks on the agreement. British and
French diplomats expressed surprise that the allegations had caused much
controversy. Bernard Squarcini, head of the French domestic intelligence agency
until last year, said: "It seems that our politicians don't read the reports we
send them. The agencies know that all countries carry out surveillance on their
allies. The Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial front just as
we spy on them."

The former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said that France
eavesdropped on her when she was in government. "This is not a surprise -
countries spy on each other," she said.

Mr Cameron faced being dragged into the row after Italian weekly L'Espresso
reported that British intelligence services had been monitoring Italian telecoms
networks, targeting the government and companies as well as suspected terrorist
groups.

The report, based on evidence from former whistleblower Edward Snowden, said
that documents held by Snowden "contain a great deal of information on the
control of Italian telecommunications which will be released in the next few
weeks". Asked about L'Espresso's report, Enrico Letta, the Italian Prime
Minister, said: "It is inconceivable and unacceptable that there should be acts
of espionage of this type."

Last night The Guardian reported that the US National Security Agency had
monitored the phone conversations of 35 world leaders after being given the
numbers by US government departments, including the White House.

The White House denied that it had monitored Mr Cameron's communications at any
time, while refusing to provide similar clarification on Mrs Merkel. Asked by
The Times whether Mr Cameron's communications had ever been subject to US
government monitoring, Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for the National Security
Council, said: "The answer is no."

On Mrs Merkel, she was less specific, saying: "The United States is not
monitoring and will not monitor the communications of Chancellor Merkel. Beyond
that, I'm not in a position to comment publicly on every specific alleged
intelligence activity."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Merkel has been told that the US is not monitoring her calls,
but the White House is less specific about the past
JULIAN STRATENSCHULTE / DPA / AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 25, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Celebrity Watch

BYLINE: Caitlin Moran

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1704 words


10 DOWN Katie Price

Vague misogyny corner, with a friend of Price's ex-boyfriend, Danny Cipriani,
taking to the pages of heat to describe the much-married glamour model as "like
a praying mantis".

CW presumes that the "friend" is suggesting that Price is sexually predatory and
murderous - cannibalising those she mates with, head first, as is observed in
the female of the praying mantis species. However, as Cipriani is still
observably "with head" - it's definitely still there, stuck to his neck, like a
balloon on the end of a stick - CW is slightly confused by the analogy, and can
only presume the "friend" means that Price either has the ability to slash
captors with raptorial legs, or adaptive melanism - able to change colour
according to her environment - which might, CW supposes, explain the fake tan.

9 DUP Freddie Mercury

Impossible exciting casting news as it was announced, this week, that sexy Tom
Hardy from The Dark Knight Rises will be playing Elton John in a forthcoming
biopic, while sexy Ben Whishaw from The Hour has signed up to play Freddie
Mercury from Queen in a similar project.

While not unduly self-centred, the casting of two of CW's most-fancied actors
playing two of CW's favouriteever pop stars has made CW blithely feel as though
this week everything's coming up CW. Now the world needs only to persuade
Benedict Cumberbatch and John Simm to play the Pet Shop Boys in a six-part
series called It's A Sin, and CW's quids in.

8 DOWN Martyn LeNoble

Christina Applegate's husband, Martyn LeNoble, was frisked by police after a row
with a paparazzo in LA. As a well-travelled citizen of the world, CW would like
to step forward to do a little bit of translation here for the less
"cosmopolitan" of reading. Martyn LeNoble, in English, is "Martin The Noble."
You're welcome.

7 DUP David Beckham

Controversy in Alex Ferguson's autobiography - named My Autobiography, with the
same delightful directness and simplicity of expression that saw Ferguson
eventually banned from the touchlines during matches - as he "lays into" David
Beckham.

"The minute a Manchester United player thought he was bigger than the manager,
he had to go. David thought he was bigger than Alex Ferguson. That was the death
knell for him," Ferguson writes. However, given that a quick google reveals that
Beckham's height is 1.83m - while Ferguson clocks in at a mere 1.80m - CW
reckons that's, to use a footballing phrase, 15-love to Beckham.

6 UP DJennifer Aniston

This week's heat informs us of the latest development in the world of celebrity
transport: Jennifer Aniston is building a private airport ... at her house.

"Reports" suggest a 975.3m runway - which is the equivalent of 541.83 Alex
Fergusons end-to-end, but only 532.9 David Beckhams because he is taller! - will
be laid in the grounds of her $21 million Bel Air mansion, for her fiancé to
land his private jet in their garden, thus speeding up his weekly commute from
New York.

Well, that's what Aniston has told everyone, so that she sounds all noble and
loving. CW reckons it knows the real reason for her wanting a private airport:
she wants to take more than 100ml of hairspray with her next time she flies.
Aniston's had it up to here with this post al-Qaeda "only 100ml of Elnett"
security-measures bullshit. She's done exactly what any other woman worth $150
million and famous for her hair would do: built an airport in her back garden so
that she can take one of the massive jumbo cans with her, then walk off that
plane with hair fully 2ft wide and rigid, as God intended.

5D DUP John Major

"Not apology of the week" comes from former Prime Minister John Major, who has
announced he will campaign for Britain to stay in the EU in the forthcoming
referendum. Reflecting on how Europe became such a difficult topic during his
years in Downing Street - owing to a vociferous Eurosceptic movement within the
Tory party - Major said he regretted his infamous outburst: "Calling ... a
number of my colleagues 'bastards' was absolutely unforgivable," he said, before
adding, drily: "My only excuse is that it was true."

4 DUP Melissa McCarthy

Controversy has erupted over the cover of the latest edition of Elle in America,
where Bridesmaids star Melissa McCarthy has been shot looking glamorous in a
dark cashmere coat.

This has caused consternation among many feminist fashion commentators - fashion
blog Go Fug Yourself crying, "I can't believe they put the plus-sized actress on
their cover BURIED INSIDE A GIANT COAT," while former model Cynthia Bailey
sighed, "Times have changed, fashion has changed - I thought, 'What a missed
opportunity to represent all the curvy girls of the world'."

McCarthy has stated it was her choice to wear the coat - "I was, like, give me a
big coat to wear. Give the girl some cashmere!" - but CW feels that everyone is
ignoring the real issue: that McCarthy won't feel the benefit when she goes out.

3D DUP David Cameron

CW was intrigued to learn this week, via the pages of heat, that David Cameron
is apparently a big fan of the reality TV show Made In Chelsea.

Francis Bouille, one of the stars of the show, told heat: "The founder of our
production company ... is very good friends with David Cameron and gave him the
box set. The last I heard, he was halfway through it."

For those who have not seen MiC, the premise is that we watch the romantic
machinations of sundry trust-fund ass-hats go catastrophically awry on a series
of skiing holidays, spa breaks and expensive evenings spent in cocktail bars
full of men called nothing but "Henry".

CW therefore imagines that, for the Camerons - David's father was worth an
estimated £10 million while Samantha is the stepdaughter of Viscount Astor - MiC
is like EastEnders is for the rest of the population: a piece of misery-tourism
in the lives of those unbearably more desperate and misfortunate than ourselves.

"Oh God - there isn't even room in that duplex for a labrador. They'll have to
downscale to a cockerpoo. And none of them knows William and Kate. How awful."

2 DOWN Miranda Kerr

Australian supermodel Miranda Kerr has been asked what are the three things that
every woman should have in her Jewellery box: "A strand of pearls, some diamond
earrings and a classic timepiece," she replied, in a matter-of-fact, helpful
way.

Happily, CW is so, so close to this ideal! It's own Jewellery box contains a
clay necklace made by its daughter at nursery that transferred its paint on to
CW's blouse during a rainstorm; a brooch in the shape of a fox's head that CW
bought when a bit pissed and thought: "A fox's head! Thass basically a neutral,
yah? Foxes go with everything"; and 147 single earrings, the partners of which
are who knows where? Probably in the back of taxis, or in pubs.

1 DUP Kim Kardashian and Kanye West

If you were measuring which celebrities had "won" this week on the basis of
media coverage, the crown would - easily - have been taken by reality TV star
Kim Kardashian and hip-hop legend Kanye West, whose column inchage would need to
be measured with one of those wheel-on-a-stick things you see council men in
fluoro tabards trundling down the middle of the street while looking unhappy. To
clarify: there's been a lot of it.

This is, obviously, par for the course - the moment they got together, they
formed another one of those megalopolis super-celebrity relationships, like Brad
Pitt and Angelina Jolie, or Kermit and Miss Piggy. "Twin layers of trouble/ Two
times that might", as the Go-Betweens so beautifully put it. Kardashian getting
together with West is like Mexico City marrying Bangkok - if you can imagine
Mexico City posting endless selfies of itself in a swimsuit while Bangkok did a
lot of interviews where it became inexplicably riled about not being respected
as the inventor of leather tracksuit bottoms. Which CW totally can.

And so to this week - where Kardashian kicked off proceedings by posting a
selfie on Twitter of her "post-baby body", in which her glorious, deathless arse
was in a tiny white swimsuit and offered to the camera in such a way as to make
even the most heterosexual woman want to put their face on it and go, "wubba
wubba wubba", in some pre-linguistic obeisance to its powerful majesty. Kanye
did just this - replying "HEADING HOME NOW!" - and the world's media went,
"Thank you, guys! Thank you so much! We hacks don't need to try that hard if you
just basically sext each other in front of an audience of 554 million and we can
take uncopyrighted screengrabs and put them straight in the paper - PLEASE MAKE
NOTES FOR FUTURE REFERENCE, KATE AND WILLIAM!"

However, Kim's sex-bum turned out to be but as John the Baptist to Monday's
mega-event: Kanye's proposal of marriage. As Mail Online reported it - over six
separate stories - West hired out San Francisco's AT&T Park baseball ground for
the event. A 50-piece orchestra played one of West's own songs while a gigantic
TV screen flashed up the message "PLEEEASE MARRY MEEE!!!" and fireworks went
off. When Kardashian consented, her relatives - in ball gowns - ran on to the
pitch, and West presented her with a HUGE diamond engagement ring.

While many have commented on the scale of Kanye's proposal (if hiring out AT&T
Park is anything like hiring out the sport facilities in Haringey, Kanye will
have spent a lot of time on hold to the local council, unhappily listening to
Michael Bublé's Just Haven't Met You Yet; it would have been quite the
commitment), CW sees Kanye's dilemma.

In 2013, flashy wedding proposals have become de rigueur. Any Joe Schmoe or
Julia Whatever can rustle up a flashmob proposal in a shopping mall involving 50
friends doing a dance to an electro-clash version of She by Charles Aznavour,
and then score 90,000 hits on YouTube.

In this kind of extreme-proposal climate, then, one of the most famous men in
the world hiring an orchestra and a baseball stadium actually seems a bit, well,
meh-whevs, to be honest. CW is surprised that West did not laser "MARRY ME" on
to the side of the Moon or alter Mount Rushmore so that the four presidents were
joined by a massive carving of Kardashian's bum with "MRS WEST" tattooed on it.

And CW would boldly say as much to West's face - albeit so quietly he couldn't
hear it, and while running away.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INSTAGRAM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 25, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Merkel phone hacking row could stop EU free-trade talks with US

BYLINE: Sam Coates ; Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 682 words


The global spying row that has taken over a summit of European leaders in
Brussels is Jeopardising a key plank of Britain's referendum strategy.

A free trade deal between the United States and the EU could become a casualty
of the anger over claims that the US Administration has been monitoring Angela
Merkel's mobile phone.

The row could also strengthen calls for tougher data protection laws, which are
opposed by David Cameron.

Arriving in Brussels, Mrs Merkel said that it was "really not on" for friends to
spy on each other. Speaking hours after her Government summoned the US
ambassador in Berlin, the German Chancellor told reporters: "It's not Just about
me, but about every German citizen. We need to have trust in our allies and
partners, and this trust must now be established once again."

A key ally of Mrs Merkel announced that Germany might force the suspension of
free trade talks between the United States and the European Union. Gunther
Krichbaum, head of the Bundestag's EU committee, called on the talks to be
halted. He told the BBC that wire-tapping was a scandal and that we "need to put
the transatlantic trade agreement on hold".

The Prime Minister has made the trade deal an important part of his effort to
convince Britons to stay in the EU ahead of the 2017 referendum, launching it
with President Obama earlier in the year at a summit in Northern Ireland.

The EU has been negotiating with Washington to create what would be the world's
largest free trade area, with more than 800 million inhabitants. Mr Cameron
wants to hold it up as an example of the benefits the EU can bring for Britain.
A Downing Street spokesman said that Britain would try to head off any attempt
to scupper the deal.

However, other European politicians supported Germany. Martin Schulz, the
President of the European Parliament, said of negotiations: "I believe that we
have to interrupt again."

France also signalled support, but Fredrik Reinfeldt,Swedish Prime Minister,
said that the affair would not affect the talks on the agreement. British and
French diplomats expressed surprise that the allegations had caused much
controversy.

Bernard Squarcini, head of the French domestic intelligence agency until last
year, said: "It seems that our politicians don't read the reports we send them.
The agencies know that all countries carry out surveillance on their allies. The
Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial front Just as we spy on
them."

The former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said that France
eavesdropped on her when she was in government. "This is not a surprise -
countries spy on each other," she said.

Mr Cameron faced being dragged into the row after Italian weekly L'Espresso
reported that British intelligence services had been monitoring Italian telecoms
networks, targeting the government and companies as well as suspected terrorist
groups.

The report, based on evidence from former whistleblower Edward Snowden, said
that documents held by Snowden "contain a great deal of information on the
control of Italian telecommunications which will be released in the next few
weeks". Asked about L'Espresso's report, Enrico Letta, the Italian Prime
Minister, said: "It is inconceivable and unacceptable that there should be acts
of espionage of this type."

Last night The Guardian reported that the US National Security Agency had
monitored the phone conversations of 35 world leaders after being given the
numbers by US government departments, including the White House.

The White House denied that it had monitored Mr Cameron's communications at any
time, while refusing to provide similar clarification on Mrs Merkel. Asked by
The Times whether Mr Cameron's communications had ever been subJect to US
government monitoring, Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for the National Security
Council, said: "The answer is no."

On Mrs Merkel, she was less specific, saying: "The United States is not
monitoring and will not monitor the communications of Chancellor Merkel. Beyond
that, I'm not in a position to comment publiclsy on every specific alleged
intelligence activity."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Merkel has been told that the US is not monitoring her calls,
but the White House is less specific about the past
JULIAN STRATENSCHULTE / DPA / AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 25, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Merkel phone-hacking row could stop EU free-trade talks with US

BYLINE: Sam Coates ; Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 693 words


The global spying row that has dominated a summit of European leaders in
Brussels is Jeopardising a key part of Britain's referendum strategy.

A free trade deal between the United States and the EU could become a casualty
of the anger over claims that the US Administration has been monitoring Angela
Merkel's mobile phone. The row could also strengthen calls for tougher data
protection laws, which are opposed by David Cameron.

Arriving in Brussels, Mrs Merkel said that it was "really not on" for friends to
spy on each other.

Speaking hours after her Government summoned the US Ambassador in Berlin, the
German Chancellor told reporters: "It's not Just about me, but about every
German citizen. We need to have trust in our allies and partners, and this trust
must now be established once again."

Britain claimed that it had averted attempts to force an immediate halt to the
talks to introduce a free trade pact between the US and EU. A Tory source said:
"We've seen off any attempt that the talks on the trade agreement should get
suspended."

A key ally of Mrs Merkel announced that Germany might force the suspension of
free trade talks between the US and the EU. Gunther Krichbaum, head of the
Bundestag's EU committee, told the BBC that wire-tapping was a scandal and that
we "need to put the transatlantic trade agreement on hold". The Prime Minister
has made the trade deal an important part of his effort to convince Britons to
stay in the EU before the 2017 referendum, launching it with President Obama at
a summit in Northern Ireland in June.

The EU has been negotiating with Washington to create what would be the world's
largest free trade area, with more than 800 million inhabitants. A Downing
Street spokesman said that Britain would try to head off any attempt to scupper
the deal.

Other European politicians supported Germany. Martin Schulz, the President of
the European Parliament, said of the negotiations: "I believe that we have to
interrupt again."

France also signalled its support, but Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Swedish Prime
Minister, said that the affair would not affect the talks on the agreement.

British and French diplomats expressed surprise that the allegations had caused
such controversy.

Bernard Squarcini, head of the French domestic intelligence agency until last
year, said: "It seems that our politicians don't read the reports we send them.
The agencies know that all countries carry out surveillance on their allies. The
Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial front Just as we spy on
them." Madeleine Albright, the former US Secretary of State, said that France
eavesdropped on her when she was in government. "This is not a surprise -
countries spy on each other," she said.

Mr Cameron faced being dragged into the row after the Italian weekly L'Espresso
reported that British intelligence services had been monitoring Italian telecoms
networks, targeting the Government and companies as well as suspected terrorist
groups.

The report, based on evidence from the whistleblower Edward Snowden, said that
documents he held "contain a great deal of information on the control of Italian
telecommunications which will be released in the next few weeks". Asked about
L'Espresso's report, Enrico Letta, the Italian Prime Minister, said: "It is
inconceivable and unacceptable that there should be acts of espionage of this
type."

Last night The Guardian reported that the US National Security Agency had
monitored the phone conversations of 35 world leaders after being given the
numbers by government departments including the White House. The White House
denied that it had monitored Mr Cameron's communications at any time, while
refusing to provide similar clarification on Mrs Merkel. Asked by The Times
whether Mr Cameron's communications had ever been subJect to US government
monitoring, Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for the National Security Council, said:
"The answer is no." On Mrs Merkel, she was less specific, saying: "The US is not
monitoring and will not monitor the communications of Chancellor Merkel. Beyond
that, I'm not in a position to comment publicly on every specific alleged
intelligence activity."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Merkel has been told that the US is not monitoring her calls,
but the White House is less specific about the past
JULIAN STRATENSCHULTE / DPA / AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Merkel under pressure to cut Cameron adrift on EU reform

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 361 words


David Cameron was dealt a blow to his ambition of winning back powers from the
European Union with the help of Angela Merkel when the German Chancellor's
centre-left allies vowed yesterday to frustrate British demands.

Mrs Merkel, who gave clear encouragement in the summer to the Prime Minister's
pledge to take some controls back from Brussels before a referendum on EU
membership in 2017, is forming a "grand coalition" with the Social Democratic
Party (SPD) after last month's election.

A senior SPD member said that his party was opposed to Mr Cameron's plans and
would resist his aim of ending the EU's commitment to "ever-closer union".

It is the first clear sign that the new German Government will be less likely to
back Mr Cameron, even though he believes that some repatriation of powers is
necessary to convince voters to stay in the EU. Asked whether the SPD supported
Mr Cameron's goal, Axel Schäfer, deputy chairman of the party's parliamentary
group, said simply: "No."

He was equally frank when asked about Mr Cameron's intention to reverse the goal
of closer union. "Never," he said. "The SPD calls for the strengthening of the
EU institutions."

Mrs Merkel needs SPD support to beef up EU control over national budgets. She
wants binding contracts on borrowing and deficit levels overseen by the European
Commission. Mr Schäfer warned that the SPD would not back her if she continued
to help Mr Cameron to take back powers.

"The SPD will not support any [EU treaty] settlements if Merkel conducts
parallel negotiations with David Cameron over the transfer of EU competences
back to member states," he told Der Spiegel. Mr Schäfer added that his party was
against any new treaty that would require approval in a referendum.

It remains to be seen whether Mrs Merkel can retain full control over EU policy
in her third term, as she did in coalition with the right-wing Free Democrats.

The SPD is determined to win a series of concessions as the price of forming a
coalition, most centred on domestic policy, with a minimum wage of (EURO)8.50
top of its shopping list. They will not want to appear a pushover in foreign
policy, however. Leading article, page 28

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We need alcohol to fuel Merkel coalition, says SDP;
Germany

BYLINE: Germany David; Charter Berlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 480 words


Angela Merkel inched towards a second "grand coalition" with her main political
rivals yesterday despite slow and fractious talks that left a Social Democrat
leader calling for alcohol to lubricate a decision.

Mrs Merkel, whose resounding German election victory last month left her five
seats short of an overall majority, met with the Greens yesterday but
expectations for a deal with them are low after her move at the EU on Monday to
delay cuts to car emissions.

The Chancellor is thought to be prepared to compromise on the Social Democratic
Party's (SPD) demand for a minimum wage in order to create a coalition that
would command 504 of the 631 seats in the Bundestag. Such a majority would
enable Mrs Merkel to create new structures for the eurozone and design a new
energy mix after her decision to phase out nuclear power.

German governments are usually run by a coalition under a voting system designed
to encourage consensus. Mrs Merkel spent her first term in alliance with the SPD
and her second with the pro-business Free Democrats, who were wiped out in the
general election on September 22. A third round of "talks about talks" with the
SPD is scheduled for tomorrow amid complaints from Andrea Nahles, the
centre-left party's general secretary, that something was missing from earlier
discussions. "I can remember when I participated in the 2005 coalition talks and
then at least there was alcohol," Ms Nahles said after negotiations ran for
eight hours into early yesterday morning. "Today there was nothing."

Ms Nahles indicated that some progress had been made, with neither side wanting
to be seen to be abandoning key policies quite yet. "On certain subjects we can
see convergence, on others differences, for example on the minimum wage or on
taxes," she said.

The SPD must manage expectations from its members, who will have the final say
over any coalition programme in a referendum. Many of the rank and file are
sceptical about linking up with Mrs Merkel's centre-right Christian Democratic
Union (CDU) after the SPD's ratings plummeted during the previous so-called
grand coalition, from 2005 to 2009.

The main sticking point on personnel between the CDU and the SPD concerns the
post of Finance Minister, held by Wolfgang Schäuble, 71, who said that a new
German government should be in place by mid-November after concern at delays at
the EU on measures to shore up the euro. Mr Schäuble wants to continue but the
SPD is keen to put one of its top candidates into the Finance Ministry, such as
Jörg Asmussen, a former board member of the European Central Bank, or Sigmar
Gabriel, the party leader.

A compromise could mean Mr Schäuble becoming Foreign Minister or the creation of
a powerful Economics Minister for the SPD to oversee the minimum wage and energy
transition.

Mrs Merkel is expected to name her preferred coalition partner as early as this
weekend.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

We need alcohol to fuel Merkel coalition, says SDP

BYLINE: David Charter Berlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 477 words


Angela Merkel inched towards a second "grand coalition" with her main political
rivals yesterday despite slow and fractious talks that left a Social Democrat
leader calling for alcohol to lubricate a decision.

Mrs Merkel, whose resounding German election victory last month left her five
seats short of an overall maJority, met the Greens yesterday, but the talks
yielded nothing.

The Chancellor is thought to be prepared to compromise on the Social Democratic
Party (SPD) demand for a minimum wage in order to create a coalition that would
command 504 of the 631 seats in the Bundestag. Such a MAJORITY would enable Mrs
Merkel to create new structures for the eurozone and design a new energy mix
after her decision to phase out nuclear power.

German governments are usually run by a coalition under a voting system designed
to encourage consensus.

Mrs Merkel spent her first term in alliance with the SPD and her second with the
pro-business Free Democrats, who were wiped out in the general election on
September 22. A third round of "talks about talks" with the SPD is scheduled for
tomorrow amid complaints from Andrea Nahles, the centre-left party's general
secretary, that something was missing from earlier discussions. "I can remember
when I participated in the 2005 coalition talks and then at least there was
alcohol," Ms Nahles said after negotiations ran for eight hours into early
yesterday morning. "Today there was nothing."

Ms Nahles indicated that some progress had been made, with neither side wanting
to be seen to be abandoning key policies yet. "On certain subJects we can see
convergence, on others differences, for example on the minimum wage or on
taxes," she said.

The SPD must manage expectations from its members, who will have the final say
over any coalition programme in a referendum. Many of the rank and file are
sceptical about linking up with Mrs Merkel's centre-right Christian Democratic
Union (CDU) after the SPD's ratings plummeted during the previous so-called
grand coalition, from 2005 to 2009.

The main sticking point on personnel between the CDU and SPD concerns the post
of Finance Minister, held by Wolfgang Schäuble, 71, who said that a new German
government should be in place by mid-November after concern at delays at the EU
on measures to shore up the euro. Mr Schäuble wants to continue but the SPD is
keen to put one of its top candidates into the Finance Ministry, such as Jörg
Asmussen, a former board member of the European Central Bank, or Sigmar Gabriel,
the party leader.

A compromise could mean Mr Schäuble becoming Foreign Minister or the creation of
a powerful Economics Minister for the SPD to oversee the minimum wage and energy
transition.

Mrs Merkel is expected to name her preferred coalition partner as early as this
weekend, when there is also an SPD mini-conference to secure agreement on formal
talks.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Economics;
Need to know

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 80 words


Improving business: More than a third of small and medium-sized companies
believe that business is better than six months ago, with manufacturing and
construction forging ahead, up from 14 per cent in the second quarter, according
to the Business Factors Index report by Bibby Financial. Page 33 Manufacturing:
David Cameron's commitment to a referendum on European Union membership is
hurting business investment and exporters, factory bosses will tell the Prime
Minister. Page 29

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Economics;
Need to know

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 80 words


Improving business: More than a third of small and medium-sized companies
believe that business is better than six months ago, with manufacturing and
construction forging ahead, up from 14 per cent in the second quarter, according
to the Business Factors Index report by Bibby Financial. Page 43 Manufacturing:
David Cameron's commitment to a referendum on European Union membership is
hurting business investment and exporters, factory bosses will tell the Prime
Minister. Page 39

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Factory bosses tell Cameron to stay in the European Union

BYLINE: Robert Lea

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 435 words


The Prime Minister's commitment to a referendum on membership of the European
Union is hurting business investment and is bad for exporters, manufacturing
bosses will tell David Cameron today.

In a strongly worded report into the industrial effect of Mr Cameron's stance on
the EU, the EEF - which represents thousands of exporting engineering companies
and manufacturers - accuses Mr Cameron of gambling with Britain's future.

In addition, it charges the Prime Minister with naivety in thinking that
withdrawal or renegotiation of membership would not have an effect on British
industry.

Speaking ahead of the publication of a letter being sent to the Mr Cameron, his
deputy Nick Clegg and Ed Miliband, Terry Scuoler, the chief executive of the
EEF, said: "The referendum is a distraction that is creating uncertainty - and
uncertainty is the nail in the coffin for business investment."

Mr Cameron has promised a referendum on membership by the end of 2017 in an
attempt to pacify rebellious eurosceptics in his party and to help to win back
the support of voters he fears the Conservatives will lose to UKIP.

The response of the EEF is particularly incendiary as senior ministers had
sought the support of naturally Conservative-leaning big business bodies such as
the EEF, the CBI and Institute of Directors to back the referendum plan.

The EEF has spoken out after spending months canvassing its members.

The consultation has found that 85 per cent of those members support Britain's
ongoing membership of the EU.

"That is a strong mandate from which to speak out," Mr Scuoler said. "It says we
should not be holding pistols to heads, it says we should not be blackmailing
other EU nations. The focus should not be about trying to get special deals. We
say we must remain part of the EU, with no ifs or buts."

Mr Scuoler said he was alarmed at how the EU membership debate had been hiJacked
by arguments about border controls and gangs of Romanian criminals: "We need a
rational, informed and enlightened debate and one framed about growth and the
economy. Britain must not gamble on its future in Europe. The stakes are
enormous. It is naive to think we can simply pull up the drawbridge and carry on
as normal."

In its report Manufacturing: Our Future in Europe, the EEF found that for most
of its member companies EU membership was critical to exports and that the
economic benefits outweighed concerns about regulation or the repatriation of
powers.

In the past week the bosses of the big Japanese companies Nissan and Hitachi
Rail have expressed their serious concerns over the threat of Britain leaving
the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 12, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US 'worried about EU and defence'

BYLINE: Jack Malvern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 235 words


The "special relationship" between Britain and the US is suffering more damage
from government cuts to defence spending and the debate over EU membership than
it did over Parliament's refusal to intervene in Syria, according to Sir
Christopher Meyer.

Speaking at The Times Cheltenham Literature Festival, Britain's ambassador to
Washington between 1997 and 2003 said that David Cameron's defeat was of little
concern.

"I think we took a rather apocalyptic view of Cameron's being defeated in the
House of Commons, but personally I don't think it made the blindest bit of
difference for US-UK relations or the relationship between David Cameron and
Barack Obama."

He said that President Assad's use of chemical weapons had turned out to be "far
less of a trap" to bind America into an unpopular conflict than it first
appeared to be. He said that as far as the special relationship was concerned,
US politicians were more concerned with some of Mr Cameron's other actions.

"I think they're very worried about defence cuts, and they don't like the idea
of a referendum that would result in us leaving the European Union. I think
those are more important to them than Cameron's defeat in the House of Commons,"
he said.

"Their belief in European integration, that goes all the way back to what they
were looking for at the end of the Second World War. They didn't want Europe to
become a cockpit for another conflict."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Defence cuts and talk of leaving the EU are what concern the US, says
Sir Christopher Meyer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 12, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Leaving the EU risks huge Job losses, warns Hitachi

BYLINE: Andrew Clark ; Lucy Alexander

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 464 words


The head of Hitachi has warned David Cameron that thousands of British Jobs
dependent on the Japanese company would be at risk if the country were to leave
the European Union.

At a meeting this spring, Hiraoki Nakanishi, chief executive of the electronics
and industrial empire, urged the Prime Minister to be more pro-European.

"I had meetings with David Cameron in May," Mr Nakanishi told Journalists at a
briefing in Tokyo. "I strongly requested that the UK stay in Europe."

Recent deals have turned Hitachi into one of Japan's top foreign investors in
Britain. It signed a £1.2 billion contract to build a new generation of
inter-city trains for Britain's railways this year, with carriages to be
completed at a factory in Newton Aycliffe, Co Durham, guaranteeing 730 Jobs
directly, plus many more among suppliers.

Hitachi also paid £700 million last year for Horizon Nuclear Power, which is
planning to build reactors on Anglesey and in Oldbury, Gloucestershire. Each
site is expected to employ 6,000 people if construction goes ahead.

Yet the company has added its voice to mounting anxiety in the overseas business
community over Britain's likely referendum on EU membership. Mr Nakanishi said
that the rail deal, in particular, had been struck with Europe in mind because
the Government wanted Hitachi to use its purpose-built factory in the North East
to build trains for rail systems across the Continent.

"The UK Government requested me to set up the whole supply chain in the UK," Mr
Nakanishi said. "If the UK leaves Europe, I would have to reconsider how to
manage the total rail business." He added that Hitachi's nuclear proJect, would
also face re-examination.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "The Prime Minister has sent a very clear
message to business and investors: we want a strong Britain in an
outwardlooking, reformed EU focused on boosting competitiveness and delivering
prosperity.

And he is confident he can achieve this."

The Japanese Government, too, has urged Britain not to leave Europe. Yasumasa
Nagamine, the Deputy Foreign Minister, said that Japan was watching Britain's EU
debate with "strong interest ... We want the UK to continue playing a very
important role in your region - Europe."

Business lobbying groups in Britain are increasingly conscious of the
uncertainty building ahead of a vote on EU membership, which Mr Cameron has
promised to hold in the next Parliament if he remains in Downing Street.

Sir Mike Rake, the CBI President, said that Britain could lose its status to
Düsseldorf as Asian carmakers' "launch point" into Europe if it was to go it
alone.

"It would be hugely damaging to confidence and the UK economy," Sir Mike said.
"It would take a significant amount of time to readJust, it would kill off
inward investment and productivity."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 11, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory MPs call on Afriyie to drop EU vote demand

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 162 words


More than 140 of the newest Conservative MPs have signed a letter urging a
colleague to abandon his attempt to force an early EU referendum.

Adam Afriyie was left isolated at the weekend after saying that he wanted to
force David Cameron to bring forward his promise to hold a poll by the end of
2017. Mr Afriyie had said that voters were "not convinced" that the Prime
Minister would stick to his word.

Yesterday it emerged that the vast majority of the 147 Tory MPs elected in 2010
had formally called for him to desist. They said that a Private Members' Bill
making its way through Parliament was the best way to persuade the electorate
that their party supported a referendum. Mr Afriyie, the MP for Windsor, has yet
to withdraw his amendment, despite the overwhelming opposition of his
colleagues. Had the idea been put forward by an established Eurosceptic in the
party, it might have met a different response. Nevertheless, the show of loyalty
will have delighted No 10.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 11, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory MPs call on Afriyie to drop EU vote demand

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 162 words


More than 140 of the newest Conservative MPs have signed a letter urging a
colleague to abandon his attempt to force an early EU referendum.

Adam Afriyie was left isolated at the weekend after saying that he wanted to
force David Cameron to bring forward his promise to hold a poll by the end of
2017. Mr Afriyie had said that voters were "not convinced" that the Prime
Minister would stick to his word.

Yesterday it emerged that the vast majority of the 147 Tory MPs elected in 2010
had formally called for him to desist. They said that a Private Members' Bill
making its way through Parliament was the best way to persuade the electorate
that their party supported a referendum. Mr Afriyie, the MP for Windsor, has yet
to withdraw his amendment, despite the overwhelming opposition of his
colleagues.

Had the idea been put forward by an established Eurosceptic in the party, it
might have met a different response. Nevertheless, the show of loyalty will have
delighted No 10.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 9, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nissan warns against referendum vote to leave EU

BYLINE: Clark Yokohama

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 589 words


Nissan has urged Britain not to leave the European Union, warning that an exit
could create obstacles to foreign investment in automotive manufacturing.

The Japanese carmaker, which recently pumped £125 million into expanding
Britain's biggest car factory in Sunderland, held out the prospect yesterday of
adding an extra model to the factory's production line in addition to planned
work on three new vehicles, including the Note and the Leaf.

Toshiyuki Shiga, Nissan's chief operating officer, expressed caution about a
referendum on EU membership, saying an "out" vote could lead to costly changes
in tariffs, duties, regulations and taxes. "The UK is part of the European Union
- that's very important," said Mr Shiga, who is second-in-command to Carlos
Ghosn, Nissan's chief executive. "From the foreign investor's point of view, I
hope that the UK will remain an EU member."

Nissan employs 6,100 people in Sunderland and the factory's supply chain
supports a further 24,000 jobs.

The company has been a stalwart in British car production: it has built cars in
Wearside since 1986 and has invested £3.5 billion in the site.

Mr Shiga said that Nissan would "respect" the result of any EU referendum vote
but added that the company liked the fact that the Sunderland plant operated
under the same safety and emissions regulations as factories elsewhere. "If the
UK, after departing from the EU, made unique regulations, unique standards, that
would become an obstacle," he said.

Sunderland acts as Nissan's "mother" site, co-ordinating production as far
afield as Spain, Russia and South Africa. Mr Shiga said he would be particularly
concerned if, after a UK exit from Europe's free trade area, the rest of the EU
began imposing a tariff on British-made goods. "If the EU side put import duties
on the UK, that would be a big obstacle. It depends what happens after leaving,"
Mr Shiga said.

Britain's carmaking sector has been expanding rapidly. In the first quarter of
last year, the UK moved into a trade surplus in cars for the first time since
1976. One in seven cars bought in Britain is made domestically and purchases of
new vehicles are on the increase: more than 403,000 cars were registered last
month, the most since March 2007.

Only last month, the first Nissan Note rolled off Sunderland's production line.
The new "supermini" vehicle adds to production of the Qashqai, the Juke and the
electrically powered Leaf.

Nissan plans to make a model from its upmarket Infiniti range in Sunderland from
2015 and Mr Shiga hinted that one more model could yet be added to the factory,
which churns out 510,000 cars annually.

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills declined to comment on the
Nissan boss's remarks. Labour said Nissan's stance underlined concerns about the
coalition's attempt to renegotiate Britain's membership of the EU. Chuka Umunna,
the Shadow Business Secretary, said: "These comments make it clear that millions
of pounds of investment and thousands of jobs could be put at risk by the
Tory-led Government's attitude to the EU. Nissan's comments underline that
Britain's place within the EU is essential to us being able to compete, attract
investment and pay our way in the world."

Nissan has consistently praised its British workforce. Announcing its extra
investment in the plant last month, it credited Sunderland with setting "an
international benchmark for productivity and quality".

Nissan is Japan's second-largest carmaker, behind Toyota.

Unique UK regulations would be an obstacle Toshiyuki Shiga

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: More than 6,000 workers are employed directly in Nissan's Sunderland
plant, Britain's biggest car factory, which turns out 510,000 vehicles every
year
ANNA GOWTHORPE / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 8, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP's 'lost cause';
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 203 words


Sir, You rightly say (leading article, Oct 5) that "Mr Farage wants UKIP to be
taken seriously". You also state that the only thing that a party such as his
"can do is split the vote keeping the Conservatives out".

This is only part of the story. The more important thing he is doing and on
which I directly challenged him in the Bruges Group debate at the Conservative
Party conference and then on ConservativeHome is that he is undermining the
Eurosceptic cause. His strategy is self-defeating because he is wilfully seeking
to deprive the Conservative Party of enough votes to hold its marginal seats in
a general election and letting in the Euro-integrationist Labour/Lib-Dem parties
and increasing the likelihood that there would be no referendum. Fatally, UKIP
will probably fail to get even one seat in the House of Commons and has no
possibility of having enough votes there to repeal even one EU law.

It is the Eurorealist core of more than 100 Conservative MPs who are
increasingly and effectively achieving Eurorealist objectives, such as the
current Referendum Bill, and not UKIP. This is why UKIP is dangerously heading
for a Europyrrhic victory and must not be taken seriously.

bill cash, mp House of Commons

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             October 7, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Colleagues rebuff Tory rebel urging speedier EU vote

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 501 words


A rebel MP was rebuffed by fellow Tories last night after seeking to force an
early referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union.

Adam Afriyie announced that he would attempt to make David Cameron bring forward
the date for an in-out poll, but the move was met with bewilderment from even
the most ardent Eurosceptics.

The Prime Minister has promised to hold a referendum in 2017 after seeking to
renegotiate the UK's relationship with Brussels. He has given his backing to a
Private Member's Bill that enshrines that pledge in legislation.

Writing in The Mail on Sunday, Mr Afriyie said that voters were "not convinced"
that the Prime Minister would stick to his word if re-elected in 2015.

The MP for Windsor said that he would table an amendment to the Bill, due to
return to the Commons next month, that would bring the promise forward to 2014
to see off the threat of UKIP.

Mr Afriyie, a backbencher who recently launched an unlikely leadership effort,
said that his "conscience" had forced him to put forward the idea. It was met
with widespread scepticism from across the party.

Downing Street immediately dismissed the proposal, while Theresa May, the Home
Secretary, warned that his amendment could Jeopardise the existing Bill.

Even Daniel Hannan, an MEP and one of the most vehement opponents of Britain's
membership of the EU, urged MPs to oppose it. Veteran Tory Eurosceptic MPs knew
nothing of the rebel amendment until one of their number was telephoned by
Downing Street on Saturday night. They were irked that they had not been
consulted. "Mr Afriyie is not normally the person who leads Eurosceptic
rebellions," one remarked.

Another said that the proposal would be awkward for MPs under threat from UKIP,
who would feel compelled to support it. "It's an odd position to put your
friends in," he said.

The views of Eurosceptics could change if Ed Miliband throws his weight behind
the amendment, offering the prospect of winning the vote.

Tom Watson, the prominent Labour MP who was until recently the party's election
strategist, said yesterday that he would support Mr Afriyie.

His stance will put pressure on Mr Miliband, who is already facing calls from
some senior figures to call the Prime Minister's bluff on Europe by pushing for
an early referendum. Those close to him sought yesterday to play down the idea
of supporting Mr Afriyie in the Commons.

Chuka Umunna, the Shadow Business Secretary, said that such a move would be bad
for business.

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said he would be "absolutely delighted" with a
vote in 2014, even though an early referendum could leach support from his
party. The MEP refused to deny reports that he had chosen South Thanet as his
target for Westminster at the next general election.

Half of all voters want to see Nigel Farage take part in televised election
debates, an opinion poll by YouGov has found. A total of 49 per cent said that
they wanted the UKIP leader to be given a podium alongside David Cameron, Ed
Miliband and Nick Clegg.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 30, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I'm happy for my party to link with the Tories;
UKIP has transformed the Conservatives. A deal with like-minded MPs makes sense

BYLINE: Nigel Farage

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 758 words


I am heading up to Manchester this morning to attend the Tory Conference. I will
be addressing three fringe meetings and will spend the morning canvassing in a
Salford local by-election.

It seems I am persona non grata, barred from the secure zone, which is amusing
given that about half the attendees at the conference are lobbyists from all
over the world with all or no political allegiances and paying handsomely for
the privilege. To the Tory High Command I am a plague carrier.

All of which makes the recent Unite the Right campaign extraordinarily unlikely
to work.

My message at the conference is that the 2014 European parliamentary elections
represent a huge opportunity. The rise of UKIP has by any measure changed the
national debate. I now hear echoes of our policy platform with every new
statement coming out of the Tory machine. There is the new tougher take on
immigration. There is the small concession on the marriage allowance and, unlike
last year, there is the distant promise of a referendum.

I am in no doubt that without the significant rise of UKIP across the country
there would be no referendum pledge. Mr Cameron had repeatedly said that he does
not want an in/out referendum, but today he proudly claims to do so.

I believe that at these coming Euro elections those Conservatives who believe,
as we do, in our national independence should lend their vote to UKIP. This will
help to toughen up the referendum message and could even bring forward a promise
that is still four long years away. As the former CBI Director-General Lord
Jones said, four years would be a "very long period of uncertainty".

Second, a huge UKIP success next year will not Just cause an earthquake in
Westminster, the tremors will be felt across the Channel in Brussels. This in
itself could possibly, though still improbably, create a situation where the
powers at the EU top table may be minded to offer the concessions on which Mr
Cameron has staked his reputation.

For the first time, a big UKIP vote could finally convince them that the people
of Britain could well vote to leave, which they do not want to happen. So a big
UKIP vote could help Mr Cameron with his negotiations. My emphasis is on the
next elections, which of course does not mean the general election but those on
May 22 next year.

Despite all this there is endless speculation about possible deals between UKIP
and the Tories. But all those suggesting deals are missing the point. UKIP is
creating its own political ground. Every Thursday there are local council
by-elections across the country in which our vote share is getting stronger and
stronger. In the past few weeks we have been averaging more than 25 per cent and
only last Thursday we took a seat off Labour in Kent with a huge swing. In the
past year or so we have scored highly in Westminster by-elections, coming second
in the Labour seats of South Shields, Rotherham, Barnsley and Middlesbrough.

As YouGov has shown, many if not most of our supporters do not want a deal.
However, the real reason that all this talk of a deal is nonsensical is that Mr
Cameron despises us, his own board excludes me from debate and we are viewed by
the high command as in some way from the lower orders.

Besides which we are diametrically opposed to almost everything that Mr Cameron
has championed since he became Tory leader, the most recent case being his
desire to take us to war in Syria. UKIP was implacably opposed to military
action without the necessary knowledge of why and of what outcome was desired.

A few Lynton Crosby press releases in the past few months suggesting a change in
direction lack sincerity and are Just not credible. An immigration- poster truck
does not make a philosophy.

However, despite the way that the Tory leadership feels there are individuals,
such as Jacob Rees-Mogg and Peter Bone, who feel differently. If they, or others
like them - even Labour MPs - with their local associations chose to propose
running on a Joint ticket, then I would leave the local UKIP association to have
those negotiations. If after discussions they feel that it would be a better way
to serve their constituents, then I and the National Executive Committee would
be happy to hear reasoning. After all, we are a party that believes in real
localism and doesn't think that the centre is the repository of all wisdom.

But I suspect that Conservative Central Office would crush such innovative
thinking.

Nigel Farage is the leader of the UK Independence Party

We believe in localism. The centre isn't the source of all wisdom

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Not all Tories disagree with this campaigner at the Eastleigh
by-election

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 28, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'You cannot do a job like this and win a popularity contest';
As growth returns, the Chancellor is in confident mood - and after the Labour
conference he spots a political opportunity, he tells Alice Thomson, Rachel
Sylvester and Francis Elliott

BYLINE: Alice Thomson; Rachel Sylvester; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42,43

LENGTH: 1583 words


George Osborne has chosen the paintings for his office with care. Behind his
desk in the Treasury is an enormous picture of shining light bulbs. "The lights
haven't gone off yet," he says.

On the other side is a Paul Nash oil painting, showing emerging green shoots.
Although the Chancellor studiously avoids using the phrase, he says: "I feel the
economic plan is working but there is still a long way to go and for quite a lot
of people out there it is still very tough." A year ago he was booed at the
Paralympics but now that growth has returned, he is being applauded for holding
his nerve and sticking to his austerity plan. "You really cannot do a Job like
this at a time like this and expect to win a popularity contest," he says. "I am
not trying to make popular decisions but the right decisions.

Hopefully, people can see they are now paying off."

He is determined not to crow and is not going to celebrate yet. "The British
people ought to take the credit as they have had to endure a very difficult
period since the economic disaster. Britain is now a lot poorer than it was.
There was a big price paid by families across this country. Recovering from that
is a long, difficult task because it was such a calamity."

Labour hopes to win the election by promising to help ordinary people struggling
with the cost of living, but the Chancellor says that politicians handing out a
few chipped baubles will not help. "Individual policy announcements - some of
which turn out to be illegal or unworkable - don't amount to an economic
policy," he says. "The answer to improving people's living standards is to make
sure the economy recovers. You can't have a recovery for all if you don't have a
recovery."

Even some of his backbenchers murmur, though, that the "posh boys" in No 10 are
on the side of the bankers and big business, and don't know the price of milk.
"We're not going to start all that," he laughs when we ask him the cost of a
pint. "If the country is losing Jobs and businesses are closing then people are
going to suffer, but if the country is growing and people are given the right
education then everyone will be better off."

He is perplexed by Ed Miliband's promise to freeze energy bills if Labour wins
the next election because, he says, it was so obviously unworkable. "It
unravelled in 48 hours. Of course I want cheap, reliable and affordable energy -
that is an important part of a competitive economy - but the way you achieve it
is making sure you have proper capacity and ensuring ours is a country people
want to invest in."

The Chancellor, who has never hugged a huskie and says he prefers Top Gear to
Autumnwatch, is more persuaded by the argument that green tariffs are escalating
gas and electricity bills. "We should be doing what we can to reduce carbon in
our economy but I happen to think that the de-carbonisation target that the
Labour Party is signed up to ... would add to energy bills because it is too
fast and too dogmatic.

I think we should be making sure nuclear power and shale gas are part of the
mix, so I think the very prescriptive green energy path that the country
appeared to be on a few years ago is not necessarily the right path now we have
got all these other sources of energy. It doesn't mean renewables aren't part of
that package but they can't be the only thing in the package. We have to do all
these things with an eye to affordability."

At the last election the Tories urged people to "Vote blue, Go green". It's
unlikely they will repeat the slogan. "I don't think greenery is a luxury," Mr
Osborne says. "I think part of what we have got to do is protect our environment
... but I don't happen to think we solve these problems by acting alone or by
the UK pricing itself out of international markets."

He is monitoring the impact of green measures, which companies say account for
16 per cent of energy bills. "I think you have constantly to assess the value
for money of your energy policies and obligations. I want to provide for the
country the cheapest energy possible consistent with having a reliable supply
and consistent with us playing our part in an international effort to tackle
climate change. But I don't want us to be the only people out there in front of
the rest of the world."

Marriage is now higher up his agenda than environmental concerns. "Pretty much
the first commitment of the Cameron leadership was to recognise marriage in the
tax system and it is something we are going to deliver. It is going to be a
transferable tax allowance, people will be eligible for it in this Parliament."
Tory traditionalists will be thrilled, but the Chancellor insists he doesn't
want to preach. "This is about sending a signal to society that we value the
commitment of marriage ... it is not seeking to be Judgmental about any
individual but saying that society is generally better off when more people are
getting married than divorced." He doesn't want to wage war on single mothers.
"I think most of them do an incredible Job ... and of course many marriages
fail. But it is totally reasonable and part of building a stronger society to
send a signal that you value commitment. I was a strong supporter of gay
marriage." The housing market is another priority, with first-time buyers
struggling to get on the ladder. This week the Treasury announced that the Bank
of England's financial policy committee would set the terms of the Government's
Help to Buy scheme. Mr Osborne says that his plan to underwrite mortgages hasn't
caused a housing bubble but will help first-time buyers. "This is not a weapon
of financial mass destruction. This is a perfectly normal part of the mortgage
market that currently doesn't work because of the problems in our banks, so we
are stepping in to help."

The Government is also going to have to face down the Nimbys to get more houses
built. "Of course we want to protect our most beautiful environments and places
in the country but it's not fair for people who already own homes to say that
home ownership is not available to the next generation," Mr Osborne says.

He takes the same approach to large infrastructure proJects and the extraction
of shale gas. "Whether it's fracking or high-speed rail or new homes, people are
always anxious about development in their community. I understand that but,
equally, development is important for the future of our country. If we had taken
the decision not to build canals or railways or motorways over the last 200
years this country would be very much poorer." Despite wobbles both within his
own party and among the Opposition, he remains absolutely committed to HS2.
"It's about changing the economic geography of this country and making sure the
recovery doesn't Just happen in the City of London or the South East."

The Chancellor's aim is to create an optimistic message at the next election
about a changing Britain to counter UKIP's yearning for the past and Labour's
pessimism about the present.

He insists there will be no pacts with Nigel Farage. "I don't think we should be
doing deals with other political parties. If you want a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU, only a Conservative Government can deliver that. If you
want to make sure that immigration is controlled or welfare costs are kept under
control, again, only David Cameron can deliver that." The Tories mustn't veer
off to the right, however. "There's a real opportunity now, after the Labour
conference, to say to people who previously voted Labour in 1997 or 2001: 'You
were a believer in a free market economy but you also wanted decent public
services and a compassionate society - we are the party offering that now'. Ed
Miliband has vacated that territory by taking his party off to the left and I
think we can appeal to those voters."

Although he says that the political strategist Lynton Crosby will be "running
the election campaign" from No 10, he acknowledges that he will be "deeply"
involved himself. "I want us to have an inherently positive message. I'm really
optimistic about Britain's future. I think we can be the best."

Leading article, page 26

Curriculum vitae

Born May 23, 1971 Education St Paul's School, London; Magdalen College, Oxford
Career He worked briefly as a journalist before joining the Conservative
Research Department in 1994. From 1995 to 1997 he was a special adviser to
Douglas Hogg, the Agriculture Minister, then worked on John Major's election
campaign team. He became William Hague's speechwriter and political secretary
and was elected MP for Tatton in 2001. Appointed Shadow Chancellor in 2005 by
Michael Howard, he was David Cameron's campaign manager during the Tory
leadership contest and became Chancellor in 2010 Family Married to the author
Frances Howell, with two children. His father founded the Osborne & Little
wallpaper empire

Quick fire

Top Gear or Autumnwatch ? Top Gear Wallpaper or paint? Wallpaper, obviously Wind
farm or nodding donkey? A broad energy mix The Economist or Country Life? I'm
afraid it's The Economist Football or ballet? I've been to a football match more
recently Competitive or compassionate? You can be both Homeland or The
Americans? The Americans Byron burger or McDonald's? I guessed you were going to
ask that.

They're both delicious Lowry or Tracey Emin? I've got a signed Tracey Emin
(left) poster in my kitchen but I haven't got a Lowry, unfortunately - just a
fridge magnet Beer or champagne? The Tatton brewery has a very good beer called
Pennies From 11, which I would recommend

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Osborne admits some of his decisions were unpopular. "Hopefully,
people can see they are now paying off"
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER PAUL ROGERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 27, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Beyond Europe;
Senior Tories need to talk more about bread and butter issues like housing and
pay

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 555 words


The Chairman of the 1922 Committee does not speak often. Many of Graham Brady
MP's predecessors as the shop steward for Tory MPs did not give media interviews
at all. Mr Brady has been more publicly assertive and has occasionally cast
votes in the House of Commons that have not pleased David Cameron. He is part of
one of the most interesting features of today's politics - a backbench
parliamentary party that thinks for itself and is not easily whipped.

In an interview for today's Times, Mr Brady again asserts his independence of
mind by encouraging the Tory leadership to clarify its position on Europe. His
words are carefully couched but his message is clear. He wants David Cameron to
be clearer about what he is seeking to achieve in the forthcoming attempt to
renegotiate Britain's relationship with Brussels. Without "a fundamental
programme of reform" he warns, there is a greater probability that the British
people will vote to leave the European Union in the referendum promised by the
Conservative Party.

Mr Brady is speaking for a large number of Conservative MPs who doubt the
resolve of William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, to ensure Britain frees itself
from substantial amounts of EU bureaucracy.

John Redwood, for example, has described the review of competences being
undertaken by the Foreign Office as a "whitewash". Mr Brady, Mr Redwood and
other Tory MPs are right to worry about Britain's relationship with Europe.

The EU may not feature prominently on lists of voters' concerns but Europe's
direct impact on our lives - via border control, energy prices, agriculture, the
fishing industry and the regulatory regime for British industry - is huge.

It would surely be better, however, for Tory MPs to focus on broader concerns,
both at their conference next week in Manchester and in the 18 months between
now and the next election. Over the past year David Cameron has moved in
significant ways to produce a more authentic conservatism. Not just on Europe
but also on welfare, tax policy and immigration he has listened to backbench
concerns. Since he appointed Lynton Crosby as his campaign adviser he has run a
sharper, more disciplined operation and his position in opinion polls has
improved. With the likes of Chris Grayling and Owen Paterson at the Cabinet
table, he leads a more balanced team.

The rest of the Conservative Party must now move too. We will know Mr Cameron's
party is fully deserving of office when - on the eve of future party conferences
- its most prominent backbenchers are using media platforms to discuss the
housing crisis, the problem of low pay and the decline of social mobility.

Ed Miliband may have the wrong prescription for many of Britain's ills but he
has a good sense of what is ailing people - particularly those social groups
that are most vulnerable to the ups and downs of the world economy. While more
voters trust the Conservative Party to mend the economy, more voters think that
the Labour Party is likelier to protect their own families' incomes.

The challenge for the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer is to
find ways of changing the fear that gains from economic growth won't reach every
corner of Britain. Grassroots and elected Tories should not distract them from
that challenge. Ideally, they should be doing much more to help them meet it.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 27, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory backbenchers pressure Cameron on EU

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 535 words


David Cameron must spell out which powers he intends to win back from Brussels
before the European Parliament elections next year, the leader of his party's
backbench MPs has said.

Graham Brady, chairman of the 1922 Committee of Tory backbenchers, said that Mr
Cameron must flesh out a "radical renegotiation" before the polls next May, at
which the Conservatives face the prospect of a rout by UKIP.

His intervention will put pressure on the Tories' fragile internal truce over
Europe, secured by Mr Cameron's commitment to hold a referendum on Britain's
membership in 2017.

Mr Brady also made it clear that he has opened discussions with the Prime
Minister over coalition negotiations in the event of another hung parliament. He
said that Mr Cameron "fully understands and accepts" the need for the party to
have a say in any powersharing talks with the Liberal Democrats, but it is his
insistence that Mr Cameron starts to lay out his EU negotiating position in the
manifesto for the European elections that will cause the most unease in No 10.

So far Mr Cameron has resisted pressure to go into detail about which powers he
would demand back, on the ground that it would be unwise to reveal his hand
before talks with other leaders.

His silence also helps to keep the peace within the party over the nature of the
future relationship with the EU.

In a reference to UKIP, Mr Brady said that the low turnout at European elections
make them "particularly sensitive for people seeking to use them for a war
message" and that the Tories must therefore spell out their position.

"I think we should be very clear about what we want, about renegotiating the EU
treaties. We've been very clear that the public will have the final say about
[whether] what we negotiate is acceptable or not, but I think it's essential to
be up-front and clear and we also need to be really quite radical.

"The irony of all this is that, in my view, if we don't achieve quite a radical
renegotiation of our relationship with the European Union, the likelihood of the
British public choosing to leave is much greater." Mr Brady was sacked by Mr
Cameron for his support for grammar schools in 2007 but was elected by backbench
Tory MPs to represent them as chairman of the 1922 Committee. He said that he
and Mr Cameron had "regular conversations" and that it would be odd if the
subJect of future coalitions hadn't been raised. "I think he fully understands
and accepts that should we not win an overall MAJORITY that the party would need
to be more involved in the decision process".

Mr Cameron is on course to have faced the most rebellious parliament for the
past 70 years, but Mr Brady defended the right of MPs to defy the leadership.

Increasing demands from constituents that MPs represent their interests is
changing the nature of British politics, he said, and governments should respond
accordingly.

"There are some inherent tensions in our parliamentary system of government
which I think are becoming much harder to reconcile and I think that we should
see a further movement of the strengthening of Parliament. I would like to see,
at the very least, some committees have more power and resources to scrutinise
what the government does."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Now I know why I hate the nasties of UKIP;
It's because it starts from a belief that Britain is under siege from enemies,
then goes looking for them

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1027 words


I' m a big fan of hanging people for the right reasons, even when they
definitely deserve to be hanged. So it is that slightly to my surprise - and
hopefully to yours - I begin my column this week in defence of UKIP's Godfrey
Bloom. He, you will recall, is the MEP booted temporarily from his party last
week, for calling a room full of women "sluts". And I think he's been hard done
by.

It's not that I'm a fan. Indeed, were I running a party so unfortunate as to
have Mr Bloom as a member, I'd have booted him out of it at least 11 times by
now. He'd have first gone in 2004, six weeks after he arrived in Brussels, when
he suggested that nobody sane would "ever employ a lady of childbearing age".
Then again a few weeks later he wrote an article defending his visits to Hong
Kong brothels on the basis that lots of women didn't want to work in Tesco
anyway.

Not long after that, I might not have taken his side when a visiting group of
students from Cambridge University accused him of inappropriate remarks at a
dinner. ("Isn't she the most delicious bimbette?" he reportedly said of one of
them. "Thick, but good tits.") Since then he's addressed the EU Parliament while
so drunk that, according to the Conservative MEP Daniel Hannan, he had to be
carried out by an intern; congratulated France for bombing the Rainbow Warrior;
shouted a Nazi slogan at a German socialist; called feminists ugly; declared
women poor at driving cars; referred to the entire Third World as Bongo Bongo
Land; called David Cameron "the sort of chap I used to beat up"; and (deep
breath) been filmed hitting a journalist in the face with a brochure. Lord knows
what else he's done, confident in the belief that he must be doing the right
thing because everybody he hates thinks he isn't.

This, is my point, is an eminently sackable man. And yet, sack him for the wrong
reason (in this case for following the Oxford English Dictionary's first
definition of slut - "A woman of dirty, slovenly, or untidy habits or
appearance" - rather than its more contemporary second) and it feels as though
something rather underhand has occurred, even if he had it coming.

It's the same with UKIP itself. I don't like UKIP. Again, though, I have long
had a nagging sense that I'm not hanging it for the right reasons. Thanks to Mr
Bloom, I now think I understand why. All this time, I thought the problem was
that the party attracted people like him. Whereas actually, the real problem is
why it does.

It is not UKIP's core party message that tends to attract its supporters. Don't
take that from me, but from the fairly exhaustive polling conducted by Lord
Ashcroft, the former Tory Deputy Chairman, late last year. People leant towards
UKIP, he found, not because of any actual specific policy, but because of "a
greater dissatisfaction with the way they see things going in Britain: schools,
they say, can't hold nativity plays ... you can't fly a flag of St George ...
you can't call Christmas Christmas ... you won't be promoted in the police force
unless you're from a minority ... won't get social housing unless you're an
immigrant".

The main thing all these statements have in common, of course, is that none of
them are actually quite true. But UKIP appeals to people who think like this
because UKIP itself thinks like this. Paranoid, reactionary and shored up by
half-truths, this is a party that starts from a belief that Britain is under
siege by enemies inside and out and then goes looking for evidence.

In its manifesto UKIP warns that opening the doors to Romania and Bulgaria means
"another 29 million people will be entitled to come here". It's an insane figure
to choose, meaning literally every last man, woman and child in both countries.
I mean, come on, guys, would they really leave them entirely empty? Who would
they even sell their houses to? In his speech to his conference on Friday, Nigel
Farage declared that London was already experiencing a "Romanian crime wave",
with 27,500 arrests in the past five years. It's an alarming figure, sure, but
if none of those arrests had happened, national rates would have decreased by a
mere 0.4 per cent. Not a crime wave, barely a crime splash. Always, this is how
the UKIP case is made. Never from a sober analysis of benefit and cost. Always
from an instinct that those who are not like us mean us harm. For them, Britain
is Rorke's Drift, and everybody else is a Zulu.

There are other ways of worrying about immigration, and about Europe. Tory
policy today is already strict, some would say worryingly so, with a stated aim
of bringing arrivals down into the tens of thousands. The Conservatives also
already plan an in-out referendum on Europe. Yet Lord Ashcroft's latest polling,
published last week, shows UKIP making minor but damaging inroads into the Tory
vote, particularly in key marginals.

Why? What more do these people want? The answer is nothing that can quite be put
into words. Their objection to Mr Cameron stems from a pre-logical feeling of
abandonment; a sense that, with his advocacy of equal marriage, his urbanity,
his comfort with ethnic minorities, his instinctive feminism and his bike, he is
disowning an identity that they still hold dear.

He is. And it's an identity that ought to be disowned. UKIP's surge is a
by-product of of the Conservative shift to the social centre. This wasn't a
cynical move. It was a recognition that the party still carried baggage out of
keeping with the values of modern Britain and, I strongly suspect, with his own
values, too. When Theresa May spoke of "the nasty party", that was what she
meant. To govern again the Conservatives didn't just need to learn what not to
say. They also needed to learn why not to say it.

In ditching Mr Bloom on the wrong pretext, while ignoring so many right ones,
UKIP has only learnt half of that lesson. This is why I don't like UKIP, and
this is why the likes of Mr Bloom still probably do. Theirs is an antediluvian
politics from an age I don't miss at all. They are the bit of the nasty party
that never got nice.

Bloom was eminently sackable but sacked for the wrong reason

Would all 29 million people really leave Romania and Bulgaria?

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If you're happy about Merkel, think again;
By pulverising her partner and failing to win overall, the Chancellor is in a
fix

BYLINE: Roger Boyes

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 829 words


The Greek commander Pyrrhus looked down at the heaps of bodies on the bloody
battlefield of Asculum and sighed: "If we are victorious in one more battle with
the Romans, we shall be utterly ruined."

Bear that in mind please when congratulating Angela Merkel on her election win.
The German Chancellor thumped all and sundry, including, crucially, her own
liberal coalition partner, and is now faced with the most Pyrrhic of victories.
Whatever new coalition emerges, it is destined to disappoint. Ms Merkel may be
crowned in the world's press as the new Queen of Europe - it is possible to
govern in times of austerity and yet flourish at the ballot box! - but the
celebratory mood will soon curdle. What we witnessed on Sunday night was the
beginning of the end of the Merkel era.

Initially, seen through the bluetinted specs of David Cameron, Mrs Merkel's
clear superiority over the opposition Social Democrats, a 16 per cent lead, must
have seemed like an extraordinary encouragement. Had she won an absolute
majority she would have reassured disgruntled Tories that there was life after
marriage with the Lib Dems, indeed suggested that European liberalism may be on
the way out; that Social Democrat/Labour voters were not stirred by fear of
squeezed living standards; and the German equivalent of UKIP, the Alternative
for Germany, was pushed to the margins. Now all the German Chancellor had to do
was to side explicitly with Britain on the repatriation of powers from Brussels
and the sun would shine again on the Anglo-German relationship.

It is difficult to underestimate the current, often irrational Tory admiration
for the German leader. By falling short of an absolute majority, however, Ms
Merkel is now condemned to do a deal with the Social Democrats. The implosion of
her Free Democrat partner means she has been shorn of options on the centre
right. That is bad news for a British Government counting on Ms Merkel to
deliver flanking support on European reform ahead of a referendum. The Social
Democrats want Marshall Plan-style assistance for the weaker eurozone members,
they want a German socialist as head of the European Commission and they don't
want any British opt-outs. Helping Britain out of a political squeeze would come
a long way down the priority list of a Christian Democrat-Social Democrat
government.

Forming this so-called grand coalition will be more complex than the last
attempt in 2005. Christian Democrats will demand a government that reflects
their dominant position in the election.

The Social Democrats meanwhile have two strategic options: they can join a
Merkel-led team with the secret intention of pulling out mid-term. Or they can
stay in opposition under a new leadership that starts to open the party to a
deal with the more radical left party. The paradox of Merkel's victory might be
that it causes the splintered left-wing parties of Germany to make common cause
in time for the 2017 election.

To outsiders, the meagre Social Democrat result seemed like another stone in the
cenotaph of the European Left. Instead it may position the Left, and the trade
union movement, for the looming post-Merkel era.

In coalition politics, the game is up when you run out of potential partners.
Grand coalitions, grouping the two major parties, smack of desperation. Yet
there are no serious alternatives left for the Chancellor. A minority government
would find itself blocked by the upper house of parliament. Having pulled
Germany abruptly out of nuclear power after Fukushima, Ms Merkel might just be
able to recruit the Greens into a government should negotiations with the Social
Democrats fail over the coming weeks. That would harness Bavarian conservatives,
as carnivorous as Texans, with a party that has been demanding office canteens
introduce a vegetables-only day every week. It would be a veritable kitchen
nightmare, a recipe for permanent instability.

The next German government will turn inwards. Labour market flexibility, the key
to German competitiveness, will shrink. The Social Democrats will make an
(EURO)8.50 national hourly minimum wage a precondition for joining a government.
Germany's high employment rate is pumped up by a great many shortterm and
part-time workers. The country is not the uniformly prosperous society it is
cracked up to be: inner cities in the de-industrialised part of the Ruhr look
run down, autobahn bridges are being closed because of serious investment
shortfall. Some 6.2 million people are on social welfare payments.

The most plausible reading of the German public mood is that voters want
government to shift away from saving the eurozone and towards rescuing the
Fatherland from neglect. Is Angela Merkel ready to deliver? On Sunday, behind
the forced smile, she looked terrified. She has reached her zenith. From here on
in, her political space starts to shrivel. This will be her third term in
office, and her last.

Helping Britain out of a political squeeze will not be a priority

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Behind the forced smile in her hour of victory Angela Merkel looked
terrified

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

British delight will be muted

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 187 words


David Cameron's delight at his strongest European ally's re-election will be
tempered by nervousness at the outcome of her coalition talks with pro-EU
parties. The Prime Minister has built his plan to win back powers from Brussels
around his close working relationship with Angela Merkel, who said last month
that she wanted to "consider whether we give something back" from the EU to
national control.

Mr Cameron has vowed to call a referendum on membership in 2017 after
renegotiating Britain's deal. He is now faced with the centre left Social
Democrats or Greens winning the post of German Foreign Minister, the Job
traditionally given to Junior coalition partners.

Mrs Merkel is in a strong position to retain overall control of foreign policy
but could find her ability to push for concessions for Mr Cameron curtailed by
the Social Democrats' strong commitment to EU social policy.

That includes keeping all of the social and employment legislation that
aggravates Tory MPs, such as the Working Time Directive.

Peer Steinbrück of the SPD said in London that his party would allow "no special
deals" for Britain on EU laws.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'Party of in' fights for Europe

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 169 words


The Liberal Democrats will be the "party of in" on questions of Britain's
membership of the EU, Nick Clegg said yesterday. His comments come amid growing
signs that the issue could complicate the next coalition negotiations. Mr Clegg
used his end of conference speech to signal an acceptance that a referendum on
EU membership is all but inevitable in the coming years.

Despite this, his allies said that Europe would still be a major thorn because
he would be seeking to ensure the greatest chance of stopping a British exit.
They believe there is a higher chance of winning a referendum fighting with a
Tory Prime Minister such as David Cameron, who also wants to stay in. However,
Mr Cameron would probably be toppled if the Lib Dems entered a power sharing
agreement with Labour. His successor would almost certainly be far more
Eurosceptic, making the campaign far harder to win. Mr Clegg told delegates: "We
may be an island nation, but there's no such thing as an economic island in an
age of globalisation."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Party of in' fights for Europe

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 168 words


The Liberal Democrats will be the "party of in" on questions of Britain's
membership of the EU, Nick Clegg said yesterday. His comments come amid growing
signs that the issue could complicate the next coalition negotiations.

Mr Clegg used his end of conference speech to signal an acceptance that a
referendum on EU membership is all but inevitable in the coming years.

Despite this, his allies said that Europe would still be a maJor thorn because
he would be seeking to ensure the greatest chance of stopping a British exit.
They believe there is a higher chance of winning a referendum fighting with a
Tory Prime Minister such as David Cameron, who also wants to stay in. However,
Mr Cameron would probably be toppled if the Lib Dems entered a power sharing
agreement with Labour. His successor would almost certainly be far more
Eurosceptic, making the campaign far harder to win.

Mr Clegg told delegates: "We may be an island nation, but there's no such thing
as an economic island in an age of globalisation."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Romanians in UK like 'Brits with French villas';
Outrage at comments by Home Office minister ; 'Romanians like Brits in France'

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 705 words


A Home Office minister caused anger last night after comparing Britons who buy
holiday homes in France to Romanian and Bulgarian immigrants planning to live in
the UK.

The remarks by Jeremy Browne, the Liberal Democrat Crime Prevention Minister and
a senior figure in his deparment, were immediately dismissed as "bonkers" and
"total nonsense".

Expat and pensioner groups said it was absurd to liken Britons supporting
themselves overseas to immigrants coming to the UK without the means to pay
their way. Asked if the Lib Dems would be enthusiastic about further Eastern
European immigration, he said: "They are only complying with the same rules as
British people who live in Spain or have holiday houses in France or who work in
Germany."

His intervention will anger Tory ministers, who have been desperate to show
concern about a possible influx of Bulgarian and Romanian immigrants next year,
when restrictions on their movement across the EU are lifted. Thousands are
expected to arrive in Britain next year when they gain the same rights to work
in the UK as other EU citizens.

The row came ahead of a critical conference for the Lib Dems, starting today. In
an interview with The Times, David Laws, one of Nick Clegg's closest allies,
said Britain should hold a referendum on whether to stay in the EU if there is a
change in the relationship with Brussels, suggesting the Lib Dems would not be
an obstacle to a referendum in a future coalition deal with the Tories. Mr Laws
also said Syria would haunt Ed Miliband "for years to come", and that he would
try to block Theresa May's plans to introduce a "bond" to be paid by migrants
visiting from overseas.

Mr Browne made his remark in an interview with the New Statesman. He later said
that it was "simply a statement of fact" that Britons heading to other EU
countries did so under the same rules that allowed eastern European migrants to
come to the UK.

"Politicians who campaign against freedom of movement in the EU should be honest
and admit they mean that no Brits would be allowed to work in a holiday resort
in Ibiza, or ski chalets in France, or banks in Frankfurt," he said. That is
UKIP's position. But all mainstream parties in Britain have realised that is not
a sensible policy." Paul Green, a spokesman for Saga, the over-50s group, said:
"I think it is a bit bonkers. British pensioners moving abroad do so with
independent means. However, people coming to this country from Eastern Europe
are looking for the means to make them independent."

Malcolm Booth, head of the Continued on page 2

Continued from page 1 National Federation of Occupational Pensioners, said the
comments would inflame anger created by the Government's decision to take away
the winter fuel allowance from some pensioners living overseas.

"He is drawing very strange parallels that don't seem to relate to what is about
to happen," he said. "The possibility of Romanians and Bulgarians coming to the
UK to look for work is not comparable to people who have saved all their lives
and made a positive decision to live in a warmer climate." Robin Boxall, the
president of an association for expats living in the Nîmes area of France, also
disagreed. "Those heading from Eastern Europe to Britain are doing so perhaps
for the health service and for work," he said. "People who come here tend to
have worked and have moved abroad to retire."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said he thought Mr Browne "must be competing for
the title of most out-of-touch Lib Dem ever".

Mark Field, the Conservative MP for the City of London, dismissed the comparison
as "total nonsense". "[Many Bulgarians and Romanians] are not people coming for
a holiday home," he said.

"Not all, but a significant proportion that have already arrived on these shores
are responsible for aggressive begging, involved in people trafficking and
general petty criminality. It was a laidback attitude that got us into a problem
in 2004. I'm sorry that Mr Browne seems to be making the same mistake."

Downing Street also took a different tone yesterday, making clear that the Prime
Minister believed that uncontrolled immigration from Eastern Europe had heaped
pressure on the NHS and schools in the past.

Continued from page 1 National [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Romanians in UK like 'Brits with French villas';
Outrage at comments by Home Office minister ; 'Romanians like Brits in France'

BYLINE: Michael Savage ; Sam Coates ; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 705 words


A Home Office minister caused anger last night after comparing Britons who buy
holiday homes in France to Romanian and Bulgarian immigrants planning to live in
the UK.

The remarks by Jeremy Browne, the Liberal Democrat Crime Prevention Minister and
a senior figure in his deparment, were immediately dismissed as "bonkers" and
"total nonsense".

Expat and pensioner groups said it was absurd to liken Britons supporting
themselves overseas to immigrants coming to the UK without the means to pay
their way. Asked if the Lib Dems would be enthusiastic about further Eastern
European immigration, he said: "They are only complying with the same rules as
British people who live in Spain or have holiday houses in France or who work in
Germany."

His intervention will anger Tory ministers, who have been desperate to show
concern about a possible influx of Bulgarian and Romanian immigrants next year,
when restrictions on their movement across the EU are lifted. Thousands are
expected to arrive in Britain next year when they gain the same rights to work
in the UK as other EU citizens.

The row came ahead of a critical conference for the Lib Dems, starting today. In
an interview with The Times, David Laws, one of Nick Clegg's closest allies,
said Britain should hold a referendum on whether to stay in the EU if there is a
change in the relationship with Brussels, suggesting the Lib Dems would not be
an obstacle to a referendum in a future coalition deal with the Tories. Mr Laws
also said Syria would haunt Ed Miliband "for years to come", and that he would
try to block Theresa May's plans to introduce a "bond" to be paid by migrants
visiting from overseas.

Mr Browne made his remark in an interview with the New Statesman. He later said
that it was "simply a statement of fact" that Britons heading to other EU
countries did so under the same rules that allowed eastern European migrants to
come to the UK.

"Politicians who campaign against freedom of movement in the EU should be honest
and admit they mean that no Brits would be allowed to work in a holiday resort
in Ibiza, or ski chalets in France, or banks in Frankfurt," he said. "That is
UKIP's position. But all mainstream parties in Britain have realised that is not
a sensible policy."

Paul Green, a spokesman for Saga, the over-50s group, said: "I think it is a bit
bonkers. British pensioners moving abroad do so with independent means. However,
people coming to this country from Eastern Europe are looking for the means to
make them independent."

Malcolm Booth, head of the Continued on page 2

Continued from page 1 National Federation of Occupational Pensioners, said the
comments would inflame anger created by the Government's decision to take away
the winter fuel allowance from some pensioners living overseas.

"He is drawing very strange parallels that don't seem to relate to what is about
to happen," he said. "The possibility of Romanians and Bulgarians coming to the
UK to look for work is not comparable to people who have saved all their lives
and made a positive decision to live in a warmer climate." Robin Boxall, the
president of an association for expats living in the Nîmes area of France, also
disagreed. "Those heading from Eastern Europe to Britain are doing so perhaps
for the health service and for work," he said. "People who come here tend to
have worked and have moved abroad to retire."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said he thought Mr Browne "must be competing for
the title of most out-of-touch Lib Dem ever".

Mark Field, the Conservative MP for the City of London, dismissed the comparison
as "total nonsense". "[Many Bulgarians and Romanians] are not people coming for
a holiday home," he said.

"Not all, but a significant proportion that have already arrived on these shores
are responsible for aggressive begging, involved in people trafficking and
general petty criminality. It was a laidback attitude that got us into a problem
in 2004. I'm sorry that Mr Browne seems to be making the same mistake."

Downing Street also took a different tone yesterday, making clear that the Prime
Minister believed that uncontrolled immigration from Eastern Europe had heaped
pressure on the NHS and schools in the past.

Continued from page 1 National [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Romanians in UK like 'Brits with French villas';
Outrage at comments by Home Office minister ; 'Romanians like Brits in France'

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Sam Coates; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 690 words


A Home Office minister caused anger last night after comparing Britons who buy
holiday homes in France to Romanian and Bulgarian immigrants planning to head to
the UK.

The remarks by Jeremy Browne, the Liberal Democrat crime prevention minister,
were immediately dismissed as "bonkers" and "total nonsense".

Expat and pensioner groups said it was absurd to liken Britons supporting
themselves overseas to immigrants coming to the UK without the means to pay
their way.

Asked whether the Lib Dems would be enthusiastic about further Eastern European
immigration, he said: "They are only complying with the same rules as British
people who live in Spain or have holiday houses in France or who work in
Germany."

His intervention will anger Tory ministers, who have been desperate to show
concern about a possible influx of Bulgarian and Romanian immigrants next year,
when restrictions on their movement across the EU are lifted.

The row came ahead of a critical conference for the Lib Dems. In an interview
with The Times, David Laws, one of Nick Clegg's closest allies, said that
Britain should hold a referendum on whether to stay in the European Union if
there is a change in the relationship with Brussels, suggesting the Lib Dems
would not be an obstacle to a referendum in a future coalition deal with the
Tories. Mr Laws also said that Syria will haunt Ed Miliband "for years to come",
and that he will try to block Theresa May's plans to introduce a "bond" to be
paid by migrants visiting from overseas.

Mr Browne made his remark in an interview with the New Statesman. He later said
that it was "simply a statement of fact" that Britons heading to other EU
countries did so under the same rules that allowed eastern European migrants to
head to the UK.

"Politicians who campaign against freedom of movement in the EU should be honest
and admit they mean that no Brits would be allowed to work in a holiday resort
in Ibiza, or ski chalets in France, or banks in Frankfurt," he said. That is
UKIP's position. But all the mainstream parties in Britain have so far realised
that is not a sensible policy."

His comparison was questioned last night. Paul Green, a spokesman for Saga, the
over-50s services group, said: "I think it is a bit bonkers. British pensioners
moving abroad do so with independent means. However, people coming to this
country from Eastern Europe are looking for the means to make them independent."

Malcolm Booth, head of the Continued on page 2

Continued from page 1 National Federation of Occupational Pensioners, said the
comments would inflame anger created by the Government's decision to take away
the winter fuel allowance from some pensioners living overseas.

"He is drawing very strange parallels that don't seem to relate to what is about
to happen," he said. "The possibility of Romanians and Bulgarians coming to the
UK to look for work is not comparable to people who have saved all their lives
and made a positive decision to live in a warmer climate." Robin Boxall, the
president of an association for expats living in the Nîmes area of France, also
disagreed. "Those heading from Eastern Europe to Britain are doing so perhaps
for the health service and for work," he said. "People who come here tend to
have worked and have moved abroad to retire."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said he thought Mr Browne "must be competing for
the title of most out-of-touch Lib Dem ever".

Mark Field, the Conservative MP for the City of London, dismissed the comparison
as "total nonsense". "[Many Bulgarians and Romanians] are not people coming for
a holiday home," he said.

"Not all, but a significant proportion that have already arrived on these shores
are responsible for aggressive begging, involved in people trafficking and
general petty criminality. It was a laidback attitude that got us into a problem
in 2004. I'm sorry that Mr Browne seems to be making the same mistake."

Downing Street also took a different tone yesterday, making clear that the Prime
Minister believed that uncontrolled immigration from Eastern Europe had heaped
pressure on the NHS and schools in the past.

Continued from page 1 National [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Romanians in UK like 'Brits with French villas';
Outrage at comments by Home Office minister' 'Romanians like Brits in France'

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Sam Coates; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 690 words


A Home Office minister caused anger last night after comparing Britons who buy
holiday homes in France to Romanian and Bulgarian immigrants planning to live in
the UK.

The remarks by Jeremy Browne, the Liberal Democrat Crime Prevention Minister and
a senior figure in his deparment, were immediately dismissed as "bonkers" and
"total nonsense".

Expat and pensioner groups said it was absurd to liken Britons supporting
themselves overseas to immigrants coming to the UK without the means to pay
their way. Asked if the Lib Dems would be enthusiastic about further Eastern
European immigration, he said: "They are only complying with the same rules as
British people who live in Spain or have holiday houses in France or who work in
Germany."

His intervention will anger Tory ministers, who have been desperate to show
concern about a possible influx of Bulgarian and Romanian immigrants next year,
when restrictions on their movement across the EU are www.lifted.No official
estimates exist on the number expected to arrive.

The row came ahead of a critical conference for the Lib Dems, starting today. In
an interview with The Times, David Laws, one of Nick Clegg's closest allies,
said Britain should hold a referendum on whether to stay in the EU if there is a
change in the relationship with Brussels, suggesting the Lib Dems would not be
an obstacle to a referendum in a future coalition deal with the Tories. Mr Laws
also said Syria would haunt Ed Miliband "for years to come", and that he would
try to block Theresa May's plans to introduce a "bond" to be paid by migrants
visiting from overseas.

Mr Browne made his remark in an interview with the New Statesman. He later said
that it was "simply a statement of fact" that Britons heading to other EU
countries did so under the same rules that allowed eastern European migrants to
come to the UK.

"Politicians who campaign against freedom of movement in the EU should be honest
and admit they mean that no Brits would be allowed to work in a holiday resort
in Ibiza, or ski chalets in France, or banks in Frankfurt," he said. That is
UKIP's position. But all mainstream parties in Britain have realised that is not
a sensible policy."

His comparison was questioned last night. Paul Green, a spokesman for Saga, the
over-50s services group, said: "I think it is a bit bonkers. British pensioners
moving abroad do so with independent means. However, people coming to this
country from Eastern Europe are looking for the means to make them independent."

Malcolm Booth, head of the National Federation of Occupational Pensioners, said
the comments would inflame anger created by the Government's decision to take
away the winter fuel allowance from some pensioners living overseas.

"He is drawing very strange parallels that don't seem to relate to what is about
to happen," he said. "The possibility of Romanians and Bulgarians coming to the
UK to look for work is not comparable to people who have saved all their lives
and made a positive decision to live in a warmer climate."

Robin Boxall, the president of an association for expats living in the Nîmes
area of France, also disagreed. "Those heading from Eastern Europe to Britain
are doing so perhaps for the health service and for work," he said. "People who
come here tend to have worked and have moved abroad to retire."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said he thought Mr Browne "must be competing for
the title of most out-of-touch Lib Dem ever".

Mark Field, the Conservative MP for the City of London, dismissed the comparison
as "total nonsense". "[Many Bulgarians and Romanians] are not people coming for
a holiday home," he said.

"Not all, but a significant proportion that have already arrived on these shores
are responsible for aggressive begging, involved in people trafficking and
general petty criminality. It was a laidback attitude that got us into a problem
in 2004. I'm sorry that Mr Browne seems to be making the same mistake."

Downing Street also took a different tone yesterday, making clear that the Prime
Minister believed that uncontrolled immigration from Eastern Europe had heaped
pressure on the NHS and schools in the past.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Redwood attacks EU 'whitewash'

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 279 words


Tory splits over Europe re-emerged last night as a former Cabinet minister
accused the Government of ignoring key Conservative criticisms of the EU.

John Redwood, a shop steward of the Tory Right, has dismissed an official
government review into Britain's links with Europe as a "whitewash".

In an article published in The Times today, the former Welsh Secretary writes
that the official "balance of competencies" review should take note of Tory
demands to ditch the treaties signed in Nice, Lisbon and Amsterdam.

He writes that the treaties "took excessive powers away from the UK" and were
hated by Conservatives.

The Prime Minister had temporarily united his party by promising to bring powers
back from Brussels to Westminster and has also pledged to hold a referendum over
Britain's place in the EU in 2017.

Mr Redwood's intervention is an early sign that Mr Cameron's "new relationship"
with Europe will not satisfy the demands of his Eurosceptic backbenchers.

The first tranche of 36 reports into different aspects of Britain's relationship
with Europe were published by the Foreign Office in July.

"The six chapters published so far read as whitewash to justify the existing
current settlement," Mr Redwood writes. "The reader is alerted to the
overarching bias of the exercise in the first sentence: 'Membership of the EU is
in the UK's national interests'."

He added that the Government needed to publish "an honest catalogue of all the
powers the EU now enjoys".

Mr Redwood's intervention comes as José Manuel Barroso, the head of the European
Commission, accused David Cameron of becoming more Eurosceptic to head off the
electoral threat posed by UKIP.

John Redwood, page 26

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Is the Foreign Office fighting for Britain?;
An open letter to William Hague: your department's EU review is a whitewash

BYLINE: John Redwood

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 773 words


Dear William, The Foreign Office review of the balances of EU competences -
documenting the powers that Brussels has over Britain - is important work. The
title may not be catchy, but it is about our democracy and identity as a nation.

The six chapters published so far read as whitewash to justify the existing
settlement. The reader is alerted to the overarching bias of the exercise in the
first sentence: "Membership of the EU is in the UK's national interests." We are
told that the single market brings "appreciable economic benefits" that outweigh
costs. We are assured the EU's involvement in tax, especially where it has
harmonised a whole tax area through VAT, is good news. In health the review
welcomes the free movement of people and wants a bigger EU role in public
health. We are told how it is strongly in the UK's interest to work through the
EU in a number of policy areas. Surely the review should only conclude on the
balance of the UK's national interest once the whole exercise is complete? Why
have the voices that disagree been given so little attention?

The FCO should start with an honest catalogue of all the powers the EU now
enjoys. Political parties can then set out which powers should be brought back
to the UK and which continue at EU level. It will doubtless shock many people
just how much power the EU enjoys. It would give federalists the chance to
explain why they think so many powers are better exercised at the EU level than
in our own elected institutions.

A new relationship is www.crucial.UK businesses largely favour the idea of a
free trade area. They want market access but do not see the need for this to be
buttressed by the EU regulating and deciding so much. Other EU countries are
likely to want this as well as they wish to carry on selling as much into the UK
as they do today.

The euro has created new problems. The UK is not a member and is unlikely to
become one. For that reason alone we need a new relationship, as all the mutual
liabilities and extra rules that are needed in a single currency zone are not
needed www.here.UK voters have no wish to bail out foreign banks, send more tax
revenue to poorer EU countries or have our national budgets controlled by EU
officials.

Our democracy needs a new relationship. When the UK first signed up to
membership of the EEC and voted "yes" in 1975, politicians assured people that
our sovereignty was not at risk. Things have changed mightily since then, but
the people have not been given another say in a referendum.

I would urge you to take a personal interest in this. The six early chapters of
the review fall well short of what is needed and do not reflect the strong body
of opinion in this country that regards EU interference in UK lawmaking and
government as excessive.

Your officials should cite the relevant treaty provisions, and important court
cases, and list the many directives and regulations in each chapter of the
review. Far from protecting our national ability to make all decisions in
important areas such as borders, taxation and welfare, we see an increasing
interference in these most sensitive of areas under the treaties.

The Conservative parliamentary party opposed the Nice, Amsterdam and Lisbon
treaties on the very grounds that these treaties took excessive powers away from
the UK. Their provisions put far too many areas of policy under EU control.
Conservatives have not suddenly changed their minds to welcome the wide range of
powers taken from us under these three treaties, and we look to you to ensure
our views are reflected in the Review of Competences.

Many Conservatives also think that too much power has been taken away in the
name of the "single market". This has become a device to push through an
extensive legislative programme, extending the powers of European government. It
is difficult, for example, to see what extra trade and industry the extensive
energy measures have generated, leaving the EU with much dearer energy than our
competitors in the US and Asia.

Conservatives are united in wanting a new relationship. It should be one based
on trade and political co-operation, not on ever more EU law-making under the
pressure of majority votes. Many of us were pleased that the Prime Minister
committed our party to a new relationship and to a vote of the UK people to
decide if the results of the negotiation gives us what we want. The Review of
Competences should reflect that mood and policy.

Yours sincerely, John Redwood is Conservative MP for Wokingham and chairs the
Conservative Party's backbench economic policy committees

The Foreign Office assessment of the EU's powers is biased

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UK voters don't want to bail out banks or send revenue to poor EU
countries

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Redwood attacks EU 'whitewash'

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 279 words


Tory splits over Europe re-emerged last night as a former Cabinet minister
accused the Government of ignoring key Conservative criticisms of the EU.

John Redwood, a shop steward of the Tory Right, has dismissed an official
government review into Britain's links with Europe as a "whitewash".

In an article published in The Times today, the former Welsh Secretary writes
that the official "balance of competencies" review should take note of Tory
demands to ditch the treaties signed in Nice, Lisbon and Amsterdam.

He writes that the treaties "took excessive powers away from the UK" and were
hated by Conservatives.

The Prime Minister had temporarily united his party by promising to bring powers
back from Brussels to Westminster and has also pledged to hold a referendum over
Britain's place in the EU in 2017.

Mr Redwood's intervention is an early sign that Mr Cameron's "new relationship"
with Europe will not satisfy the demands of his Eurosceptic backbenchers.

The first tranche of 36 reports into different aspects of Britain's relationship
with Europe were published by the Foreign Office in July.

"The six chapters published so far read as whitewash to Justify the existing
current settlement," Mr Redwood writes. "The reader is alerted to the
overarching bias of the exercise in the first sentence: 'Membership of the EU is
in the UK's national interests'."

He added that the Government needed to publish "an honest catalogue of all the
powers the EU now enJoys".

Mr Redwood's intervention comes as José Manuel Barroso, the head of the European
Commission, accused David Cameron of becoming more Eurosceptic to head off the
electoral threat posed by UKIP.

John Redwood, page 26

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Redwood attacks EU 'whitewash'

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 282 words


Tory splits over Europe re-emerged last night as a former Cabinet minister
accused the Government of ignoring key Conservative criticisms of the EU.

John Redwood, a shop steward of the Tory Right, has dismissed an official
government review into Britain's links with Europe as a "whitewash".

In an article published in The Times today, the former Welsh Secretary writes
that the official "balance of competencies" review should take note of Tory
demands to ditch the treaties signed in Nice, Lisbon and Amsterdam.

He writes that the treaties "took excessive powers away from the UK" and were
hated by Conservatives.

The Prime Minister had temporarily united his party by promising to bring powers
back from Brussels to Westminster and has also pledged to hold a referendum over
Britain's place in the EU in 2017.

Mr Redwood's intervention is an early sign that Mr Cameron's "new relationship"
with Europe will not satisfy the demands of his Eurosceptic backbenchers. The
first tranche of 36 reports into different aspects of Britain's relationship
with Europe were published by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in July.

"The six chapters published so far read as whitewash to Justify the existing
current settlement," Mr Redwood writes. "The reader is alerted to the
overarching bias of the exercise in the first sentence: 'Membership of the EU is
in the UK's national interests'."

He added that the Government needed to publish "an honest catalogue of all the
powers the EU now enJoys".

Mr Redwood's intervention comes as José Manuel Barroso, the head of the European
Commission, accused David Cameron of becoming more Eurosceptic to head off the
electoral threat posed by UKIP.

John Redwood, page 26

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            September 6, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron lines up Merkel to curb migrant benefits;
Curb on migrant benefits is key demand before EU referendum

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 769 words


David Cameron has made curbing migrants' access to British benefits a key demand
in negotiations with Brussels before a referendum on EU membership.

In an interview with The Times, the Prime Minister said that he was looking at
restricting the ability of workers from new EU member states to work in Britain
and limiting existing migrants' access to benefits.

Speaking of the efforts to forge a consensus with Angela Merkel, the German
Chancellor, and other leaders, he said: "Could the whole problems of
immigration, problems with welfare tourism www....be part of ... making sure we
have a European relationship that works for Britain? Yes of course it can.

"We should consider all of these things. I think we particularly need to look at
the rules on benefits. One of the advantages of British membership of the EU is
that British people go and live and work in other countries. But I think there
is a problem with people living [here] and not working," Mr Cameron added.

"I also think that transitional controls have been absolutely vital and we need
to look at what more we can do on that front."

The Prime Minister acknowledged there was nothing that the Government could do
stop Romanian and Bulgarian jobseekers arriving in Britain from January. Last
year, net migration from EU nations to the UK was 82,000. The number of EU
citizens claiming jobseeker's allowance or benefits such as those for single
parents, the bereaved, carers and disabled people in February this year was
121,200.

Mr Cameron's willingness to put new benefit curbs on the table suggests that No
10 is confident that months of diplomatic effort will yield a powerful European
axis in favour of reform.

Mrs Merkel has endorsed calls for member states to take back powers from the
European Commission as she fights a re-election campaign.

The Netherlands has called for change to the EU Freedom of Movement directive
and Denmark and Austria are also believed to be on side.

British proposals have yet to be tabled but could include tightening rules of
residence for benefit claimants and stopping child benefit payments to migrants
for offspring living abroad.

Mats Persson, of the Open Europe think-tank, said: "This is an issue that ranks
highly among the UK public's Continued on page 2, col 4

Continued from page 1 concerns about the EU and meshes with what Cameron
actually can achieve in Europe.

"The Germans are sympathetic to giving countries more control over who can
access benefits, in order to maintain confidence in EU free movement. Given this
shared interest, Cameron is right to target this early in EU talks over a new
settlement."

In what will be seen as the start of the Tories' autumn campaign against UKIP,
Mr Cameron mocked the "stop the world I want to get off" politicians. He said
that the Europe talks were an example of why Britain could not "shrink" from the
world if it wanted to protect its national interests.

Clearly worried that the decision to withdraw from US-led strikes against Syria
could foster greater isolationism he said that he was determined to tackle head
on those who wanted to withdraw from institutions including the EU. "I think
there is a danger that because of what happened with Iraq and because of the
economic difficulties we have faced over the last few years, [some] politicians
and people take the view that it's time for us to step back from a global role."

Mr Cameron insisted that it was in Britain's national interest to have a world
role, adding: "We are a trading nation, we are an open nation, we are one of the
biggest investors all over the world. I and William Hague and George Osborne
will argue very strongly that Britain should be open, it should be engaged it
should make the most of all the networks we're in: the EU, Nato, the UN, G8,
G20."

Mr Cameron also moved to delay the implementation of the Universal Credit after
a report by the National Audit Office. The NAO said that the problems
represented a "significant setback to Universal Credit" and raised wider
concerns about the Department for Work and Pensions' "ability to deal with weak
programme management, over-optimistic time scales, and a lack of openness about
progress".

The Work and Pensions Secretary would study the report, Mr Cameron said. "I'm
sure the right response is to have a very measured and very steady introduction
of Universal Credit."

Asked if that meant abandoning the 2017 deadline to introduce the system
nationwide, the Prime Minister said: "When you've got a good idea it's even more
important you introduce is steadily and slowly."

Cameron interview, pages 8, 9

Continued from page 1 concerns [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron with Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, before the
first working session of the G20 summit yesterday in the Constantine Palace, St
Petersburg
ALEXANDER WILF / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            September 6, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron lines up Merkel to curb migrant benefits;
Curb on migrant benefits is key demand before EU referendum

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 756 words


David Cameron has made curbing migrants' access to British benefits a key demand
in negotiations with Brussels before a referendum on EU membership.

In an interview with The Times, the Prime Minister said that he was looking at
restricting the ability of workers from new EU member states to work in Britain
and limiting existing migrants' access to benefits.

Speaking of the efforts to forge a consensus with Angela Merkel, the German
Chancellor, and other leaders, he said: "Could the whole problems of
immigration, problems with welfare tourism www....be part of ... making sure we
have a European relationship that works for Britain? Yes of course it can.

"We should consider all of these things. I think we particularly need to look at
the rules on benefits. One of the advantages of British membership of the EU is
that British people go and live and work in other countries. But I think there
is a problem with people living [here] and not working," Mr Cameron added.

"I also think that transitional controls have been absolutely vital and we need
to look at what more we can do on that front."

The Prime Minister acknowledged there was nothing that the Government could do
stop Romanian and Bulgarian Jobseekers arriving in Britain from January. Last
year, net migration from EU nations to the UK was 82,000. The number of EU
citizens claiming Jobseeker's allowance or benefits such as those for single
parents, the bereaved, carers and disabled people in February this year was
121,200.

Mr Cameron's willingness to put new benefit curbs on the table suggests that No
10 is confident that months of diplomatic effort will yield a powerful European
axis in favour of reform.

Mrs Merkel has endorsed calls for member states to take back powers from the
European Commission as she fights a re-election campaign.

The Netherlands has called for change to the EU Freedom of Movement directive
and Denmark and Austria are also believed to be on side.

British proposals have yet to be tabled but could include tightening rules of
residence for benefit claimants and stopping child benefit payments to migrants
for offspring living abroad.

Mats Persson, of the Open Europe think-tank, said: "This is an issue that ranks
highly among the UK public's concerns about the EU and meshes with what Cameron
actually can achieve in Europe.

"The Germans are sympathetic to giving countries more control over who can
access benefits, in order to maintain confidence in EU free movement. Given this
shared interest, Cameron is right to target this early in EU talks over a new
settlement."

In what will be seen as the start of the Tories' autumn campaign against UKIP,
Mr Cameron mocked the "stop the world I want to get off" politicians. He said
that the Europe talks were an example of why Britain could not "shrink" from the
world if it wanted to protect its national interests.

Clearly worried that the decision to withdraw from US-led strikes against Syria
could foster greater isolationism he said that he was determined to tackle head
on those who wanted to withdraw from institutions including the EU. "I think
there is a danger that because of what happened with Iraq and because of the
economic difficulties we have faced over the last few years, [some] politicians
and people take the view that it's time for us to step back from a global role."

Mr Cameron insisted that it was in Britain's national interest to have a world
role, adding: "We are a trading nation, we are an open nation, we are one of the
biggest investors all over the world. I and William Hague and George Osborne
will argue very strongly that Britain should be open, it should be engaged it
should make the most of all the networks we're in: the EU, Nato, the UN, G8,
G20."

Mr Cameron also moved to delay the implementation of the Universal Credit after
a report by the National Audit Office. The NAO said that the problems
represented a "significant setback to Universal Credit" and raised wider
concerns about the Department for Work and Pensions' "ability to deal with weak
programme management, over-optimistic time scales, and a lack of openness about
progress".

The Work and Pensions Secretary would study the report, Mr Cameron said. "I'm
sure the right response is to have a very measured and very steady introduction
of Universal Credit."

Asked if that meant abandoning the 2017 deadline to introduce the system
nationwide, he said: "When you've got a good idea it's even more important you
introduce is steadily and slowly." Cameron interview, pages 8, 9 Welfare
warning, page 26

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron with Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, before the
first working session of the G20 summit yesterday in the Constantine Palace, St
Petersburg
ALEXANDER WILF / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            September 6, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron lines up Merkel to curb migrant benefits;
Curb on migrant benefits is key demand before EU referendum

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 770 words


David Cameron has made curbing migrants' access to British benefits a key demand
in negotiations with Brussels before a referendum on EU membership.

In an interview with The Times, the Prime Minister said that he was looking at
restricting the ability of workers from new EU member states to work in Britain
and limiting existing migrants' access to benefits.

Speaking of the efforts to forge a consensus with Angela Merkel, the German
Chancellor, and other leaders, he said: "Could the whole problems of
immigration, problems with welfare tourism www....be part of ... making sure we
have a European relationship that works for Britain? Yes of course it can.

"We should consider all of these things. I think we particularly need to look at
the rules on benefits. One of the advantages of British membership of the EU is
that British people go and live and work in other countries. But I think there
is a problem with people living [here] and not working," Mr Cameron added.

"I also think that transitional controls have been absolutely vital and we need
to look at what more we can do on that front."

The Prime Minister acknowledged there was nothing that the Government could do
stop Romanian and Bulgarian Jobseekers arriving in Britain from January. Last
year, net migration from EU nations to the UK was 82,000. The number of EU
citizens claiming Jobseeker's allowance or benefits such as those for single
parents, the bereaved, carers and disabled people in February this year was
121,200.

Mr Cameron's willingness to put new benefit curbs on the table suggests that No
10 is confident that months of diplomatic effort will yield a powerful European
axis in favour of reform.

Mrs Merkel has endorsed calls for member states to take back powers from the
European Commission as she fights a re-election campaign.

The Netherlands has called for change to the EU Freedom of Movement directive
and Denmark and Austria are also believed to be on side.

British proposals have yet to be tabled but could include tightening rules of
residence for benefit claimants and stopping child benefit payments to migrants
for offspring living abroad.

Mats Persson, of the Open Europe think-tank, said: "This is an issue that ranks
highly among the UK public's Continued on page 2, col 4

Continued from page 1 concerns about the EU and meshes with what Cameron
actually can achieve in Europe.

"The Germans are sympathetic to giving countries more control over who can
access benefits, in order to maintain confidence in EU free movement. Given this
shared interest, Cameron is right to target this early in EU talks over a new
settlement."

In what will be seen as the start of the Tories' autumn campaign against UKIP,
Mr Cameron mocked the "stop the world I want to get off" politicians. He said
that the Europe talks were an example of why Britain could not "shrink" from the
world if it wanted to protect its national interests.

Clearly worried that the decision to withdraw from US-led strikes against Syria
could foster greater isolationism he said that he was determined to tackle head
on those who wanted to withdraw from institutions including the EU. "I think
there is a danger that because of what happened with Iraq and because of the
economic difficulties we have faced over the last few years, [some] politicians
and people take the view that it's time for us to step back from a global role."

Mr Cameron insisted that it was in Britain's national interest to have a world
role, adding: "We are a trading nation, we are an open nation, we are one of the
biggest investors all over the world. I and William Hague and George Osborne
will argue very strongly that Britain should be open, it should be engaged it
should make the most of all the networks we're in: the EU, Nato, the UN, G8,
G20."

Mr Cameron also moved to delay the implementation of the Universal Credit after
a report by the National Audit Office. The NAO said that the problems
represented a "significant setback to Universal Credit" and raised wider
concerns about the Department for Work and Pensions' "ability to deal with weak
programme management, over-optimistic time scales, and a lack of openness about
progress".

The Work and Pensions Secretary would study the report, Mr Cameron said. "I'm
sure the right response is to have a very measured and very steady introduction
of Universal Credit."

Asked if that meant abandoning the 2017 deadline to introduce the system
nationwide, he said: "When you've got a good idea it's even more important you
introduce is steadily and slowly." Cameron interview, pages 8, 9 Welfare
warning, page 26

Continued from page 1 concerns [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron with Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, before the
first working session of the G20 summit yesterday in the Constantine Palace, St
Petersburg
ALEXANDER WILF / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Merkel may not be the friend Cameron thinks;
The German leader is sure to be re-elected but Britain cannot count on her

BYLINE: Roger Boyes

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 860 words


Europe's leaders, sapped by crisis, have been dropping like chestnuts in autumn.
Nineteen have been toppled or given a pasting in the past three years. Yet
Angela Merkel is about to be re-elected for a third term as German Chancellor
later this month, her Christian Democrats enjoying a clear 15-point lead over
the opposition. A narcoleptically dull TV duel that dodged foreign policy or
irksome questions about the country's future only confirmed to voters what they
wanted to know: their Chancellor remains as austere as their budget and
reassuringly dour. That is how Germans like their leaders nowadays.

On the face of it, Mrs Merkel's return should be good news for David Cameron.
Since November, when she came to Downing Street they have come to understand and
even like each other. Mrs Merkel was charmed by it all: by Mr Cameron's personal
laptop presentation of Britain's role in Europe, by the lack of pomp and the
sense that Europe's problems could be approached rationally rather than in a
strutting, self-regarding Sarkozian way. Downing Street, with its absence of
marble, lends itself to that kind of chat even if Mrs Merkel's biographer,
Stefan Kornelius, describes it as more of a dog kennel than the nerve centre of
a national government.

The Prime Minister seems to have come away with the idea that Britain and
Germany can make common cause in the lead-up to a referendum on Europe.
Together, as partners in thrift, we have blocked an EU budget proposal by
France, Spain and Italy. We share a suspicion of the European Commission. There
are hints that she would be sympathetic to Britain's desire to apply EU justice
and home affairs rules more selectively. The Christian Democrats have been
gnawing at the problems of a multispeed Europe for decades, since the 1994
proposals of Wolfgang Schäuble (now Finance Minister) and Karl Lamers, which
pictured the continent as a set of over-lapping Olympic-style rings. They
already have an inkling of the concessions Britain would need on the road to a
referendum.

The big question, though, is unanswered: how hard is Mrs Merkel willing to fight
to keep Britain in the EU? The British in their eagerness to avoid the chill of
isolation seem to be miscalculating on at least three counts. First we must
understand more about the German leader - her personal, emotional connection to
Europe. The assumption has been that she has a fundamentally different view of
Europe than her mentor Helmut Kohl. He was a West German Francophile with a
sense that Europe had to be woven together politically to head off wars and
guarantee prosperity. Mrs Merkel grew up in communist East Germany with no
special relationship to France. Her concern appeared to be to make Europe
competitive, efficient, tolerant and, latterly, robust enough to withstand
economic meltdown.

That is the Merkel with whom we can do business. Her East Germanness, however,
gives another dimension to her European-ness. She came of age in a collapsing
state ruled by a collapsing ideology. In private and a few scattered public
comments she has made it plain that she fears the EU too may have its day, even
comparing it with the rise and fall of Maya civilisation. To keep the EU empire
intact, she has manoeuvred for Greece not to be forced out of the eurozone. Mr
Cameron is counting on her doing the same for Britain. Yet her pledge to Greece
has never been open-ended; if Athens threatens to bring down the European
edifice, she will make sure it gets kicked out. And while Britain is plainly
different, it will boil down for Mrs Merkel to price - to whether Britain wants
more than symbolic concessions. A Brexit could, in her cost-benefit analysis, be
the only way to head off the fate of those Mayas.

Second, although Ms Merkel is a shoo-in for re-election, it is not clear what
coalition will emerge after the September 22 election. If her present partner,
the Free Democratic Party polls less than 5 per cent, it will be out of
parliament. That would make a coalition with the Social Democrats the only
option. Although their leader, Peer Steinbrueck, is an avowed Churchill fan, he
is against what he calls à la carte EU membership, and will push for a much
closer axis with François Hollande and will almost certainly back the spiky
left-wing federalist Martin Schulz to be the new head of the Commission. That
surely would be an adrenaline shot for those in the UK who want to leave the EU.

Finally, Mrs Merkel has dropped hints to another biographer, Nikolaus Blome,
that she considers ten years in office long enough, that 60 is a good age to
start something new. She is 61 on July 17, 2015, and will have had a decade as
Chancellor. If her party is to find a new candidate for the 2017 general
election, that is the moment to go. You could see it in the TV duel this week:
the slog of managing first the financial, then the eurozone crisis, has
flattened her, drained her of strength. So, here's the nub: Mr Cameron may be
building his Europe in-out strategy on the back of a political friendship that
is not made to last. That's something else to worry about.

She may calculate that a British exit is the only way to save the EU

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Merkel and Cameron have come to understand and even like each other

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Britain hasn't a clue where its loyalties lie;
After the Syria vote last week the UK is now distanced from the US and
increasingly detached from Europe

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: BUSINESS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1194 words


Iwas in America last week when Parliament voted against military intervention in
Syria. For the last few years, looking at British politics from across the
Atlantic during annual family holidays has felt like examining Lilliput from
Brobdingnag. The miniatures strutting their stuff in Westminster seemed
irrelevant compared to the giants bestriding the Washington stage. The Yanks
relished denigrating our "pipsqueak nation". Not this time.

There was genuine shock at the decision by MPs to reject action against Bashar
Assad in Syria. The New York Daily News ran a front page headline "The British
Aren't Coming". It was suggested on Twitter that English muffins should be
renamed "freedom muffins". Barack Obama has been forced to postpone air strikes
and call a vote in Congress as a result of David Cameron's defeat.

This is not just a parliamentary parlour game. It matters - and not only because
chemical weapons have been used to kill hundreds of people in breach of
international law. Whether you like it or not, Britain is redefining its
position in the world. It seems to have little or no idea, however, what it
wants its identity to be or where its loyalties lie.

The kaleidoscope has been shaken, as someone once said, but there is nobody able
or willing to create a pattern from the pieces. Too many politicians from all
parties know what they are against - war in Syria, Brussels, international aid -
but they are less keen to say what they are for. A foreign policy vacuum is
forming. We are in danger of drifting from overstretched liberal imperialism to
inward-looking isolationism by default rather than by design.

Although there is an immediate threat to be dealt with in Syria, the debate has
been all about the past. MPs are nervous about taking action against a dictator
who has almost certainly used weapons of mass destruction against his own
people, because these politicians are haunted by the failure to find the same
missiles hidden by Saddam Hussein.

Ed Miliband - convinced that his opposition to the war in Iraq was a key factor
in his victory over his brother in the Labour leadership contest - has seized
the chance to define himself against Tony Blair. He has had the Love Actually
moment that he has long craved, but we are no clearer about the circumstances in
which he would support military action were he to find himself in Downing
Street. Indeed he even seems to be wavering over Syria already, with hints from
the Shadow Cabinet that Labour could yet support future air strikes. There is
lots of special-adviser technocracy in Mr Miliband's roadmap for intervention,
but little prime ministerial leadership.

Mr Cameron, having snubbed Europe by promising a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU, now finds himself forced to turn his back on the United
States as well. Instead of standing shoulder to shoulder with the President, he
must give America the cold shoulder.

There are only so many allies that an island nation can afford to alienate in a
global age. It may be no coincidence that many of the Tories who voted against
involvement in Syria are also staunch Eurosceptics who would prefer to leave the
EU. A fair proportion would also close down the Department for International
Development.

"There's always been an isolationist strain within the Conservative Party," says
one Cabinet minister. "That's been held in check by the legacy of Winston
Churchill and Margaret Thatcher. But now lots of people in my party suffer from
Blair Derangement Syndrome - they assume that anything Tony did must be wrong.
They are also putting their hatred of David Cameron ahead of disapproval of
Bashar Assad."

One senior Tory insists there is no "breach of trust" between No 10 and the
White House, saying: "Barack Obama knows David Cameron did his best." Certainly,
the Prime Minister has made his own views clear on Syria - but he also
spectacularly mishandled the House of Commons last week. I am told that William
Hague wanted to delay the vote until more intelligence had emerged and a
stronger case for intervention had been made, but Mr Cameron listened to George
Osborne, who was urging him to recall Parliament and force an instant decision
out of MPs.

Having rushed headlong into a debate, a defeated Prime Minister then rushed
headlong into ruling out another future vote. "The whole thing was done too
quickly, judgment was too absolute - it was 100 per cent yes or 100 per cent no
when the world isn't like that," one minister says.

Had the Government waited even a few days to take the question to Parliament,
the result might have been different. Some of those who voted against
intervention are so shocked by evidence that has come out since last Thursday's
debate that they are already reconsidering their position. The Labour Party is
having a collective "oh s***" moment as it realises it may be soon be held
responsible for blocking military action against a dictator who could be found
guilty of gassing children to death in a Damascus suburb.

Of course the West should be wary of intervening in Syria. This is not a region
where anything can be securely ring-fenced. There needs to be much greater
clarity about the objectives of military action, and more thought given to what
happens after any air strikes take place. But doing nothing carries risks too.
If red lines are set up and then crossed by a dictator, with no consequences,
then despots all over the world will take that as encouragement to tweak the
tail of the West. Proper processes must be followed, but the United Nations
looks increasingly unfit for purpose, with Russia and China wielding an
ubiquitous veto.

It is true that Mr Blair gave liberal interventionism a bad name in Iraq, with a
flawed justification for the war as well as failures to plan for what happened
after it. But foreign policy must still be about more than narrow national
interests. There should be a moral as well as a materialistic motivation to
Britain's dealings with the rest of the world. "It's about how we see ourselves
as a nation," says one ministerial hawk. "Would we rather be the sort of people
who will help others or do we want to think 'no, it's me and mine'? We can't
just appeal to national self-interest. There has to be an appeal to
self-perception and self-esteem."

At lunch on Long Island last week, I met the film director Baz Luhrmann. He was
just off to China to promote his film Gatsby, one of the few Hollywood movies
granted a licence to be shown there this year. It's easy to see why the Chinese
authorities have allowed their people to see this portrayal of hedonistic 1920s
New York, which has clear contemporary resonances about the hollowness of
selfish capitalism.

There is also, though, a more optimistic moral message about the West. In F.
Scott Fitzgerald's novel, the green light at the end of the dock is a symbol of
hope, a sign of idealism beyond narrow self-interest. In an uncertain age, there
is a greater need than ever for a little idealism. Where is the green light now
shining in Britain's foreign policy?

Hague wanted to delay but Osborne pressed for a quick decision

Foreign policy should be about more than narrow self-interest

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gatsby: the green light on the dock represents hope beyond materialism
SCOPE FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'Vulnerable' Tories need to tackle UKIP, warns Coulson

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 660 words


David Cameron is failing to address the Conservatives' "vulnerability" to Nigel
Farage and the UK Independence Party and has not yet done enough to reassure the
public on Europe, Andy Coulson says this week.

The Prime Minister's former director of communications, who is awaiting trial on
charges of conspiracy to hack phones and conspiracy to commit misconduct in a
public office, makes the comments in the latest issue of GQ, which goes on sale
this week.

It represents Mr Coulson's first public intervention since May, when he
suggested that Mr Cameron knows Boris Johnson is after his job.

The Prime Minister has not done enough on Europe, opening a flank that could be
exploited by UKIP, according to his former spin-doctor and former Editor of the
News of the World.

"Europe will, of course, continue to be the drum that UKIP bangs the loudest,"
Mr Coulson writes. "The Conservatives' post election in/out referendum promise
took the wind out of UKIP sails but more work will need to be done as next
year's European elections approach. On that issue, I'm in no doubt, William
Hague [the Foreign Secretary] is already burning the midnight oil."

The article does not suggest what further steps should be taken on Europe. Among
the options could be a promise to exit from the European Court of Human Rights,
for the Prime Minister to promise to campaign for an EU exit

if he does not secure meaningful concessions.

Mr Coulson wants the Conservative leadership to realise that the party is
mishandling the UKIP threat, and are wrong to cast UKIP members as "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists" as Mr Cameron did in 2006. This only plays to Mr
Farage's advantage, he suggests.

"As a result UKIP has become a club for disgruntled, invariably older Tories fed
up with the leadership's attitude mostly, although not entirely, towards Europe.
More dangerously it allowed the party to present itself as the natural home for
anyone fed up with mainstream politics."

The public flippancy, seen in comments by Ken Clarke, the Minister without
Portfolio, this year that UKIP are "clowns with no positive policies", is
matched by private fear, he asserts.

One of the principle looming dangers comes over television debates. When working
for the Tories in opposition, Mr Coulson strongly argued against Mr Cameron's
participation in such debates, warning that they represented an unnecessary risk
but was overruled by the Prime Minister.

Mr Coulson says that Mr Farage may have a "bit of a point" when he says that a
UKIP "win" in the European elections should mean that he takes part in the
leadership debates 12 months later, foreseeing a Twitter campaign to ensure his
participation. "The Conservatives should meet the UKIP debating challenge sooner
and have Farage boxed off long before the first TV debate," he says. "It should
be led by a senior Cabinet member, not the PM . . . . Hague, as Foreign
Secretary, is perfectly placed for some net practice on Farage's preferred
playing surface of Europe."

The party should submit Mr Farage, whom he calls "Mr Mirage", to serious
scrutiny. He wants the Tories to produce a YouTube-friendly package of Mr
Farage's "less pleasant and stranger utterances". A £120 billion spending gap
from his policies "must be hung around [Mr Farage's] neck" and questions asked
about where £77 billion of public spending cuts would fall.

Mr Coulson is due to face trial at the Old Bailey next month with Rebekah
Brooks, the former chief executive of News International, over allegations that
they were involved in a conspiracy to intercept voicemails at the nowdefunct
News of the World. Mr Coulson also faces charges over an alleged conspiracy to
pay public officials in exchange for information. Both Mr Coulson and Mrs Brooks
have denied wrongdoing. Last November, appeal court judges ruled that News
International should pay Mr Coulson's legal fees in the case. The company, now
known as News UK, owns The Times. Tim Montgomerie, Opinion, page 18

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andy Coulson: first comments in public since May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain hasn't a clue where its loyalties lie;
After the Syria vote last week the UK is now distanced from the US and
increasingly detached from Europe

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1194 words


I was in America last week when Parliament voted against military intervention
in Syria. For the last few years, looking at British politics from across the
Atlantic during annual family holidays has felt like examining Lilliput from
Brobdingnag. The miniatures strutting their stuff in Westminster seemed
irrelevant compared to the giants bestriding the Washington stage. The Yanks
relished denigrating our "pipsqueak nation". Not this time.

There was genuine shock at the decision by MPs to reJect action against Bashar
Assad in Syria. The New York Daily News ran a front page headline "The British
Aren't Coming". It was suggested on Twitter that English muffins should be
renamed "freedom muffins". Barack Obama has been forced to postpone air strikes
and call a vote in Congress as a result of David Cameron's defeat.

This is not just a parliamentary parlour game. It matters - and not only because
chemical weapons have been used to kill hundreds of people in breach of
international law. Whether you like it or not, Britain is redefining its
position in the world. It seems to have little or no idea, however, what it
wants its identity to be or where its loyalties lie.

The kaleidoscope has been shaken, as someone once said, but there is nobody able
or willing to create a pattern from the pieces. Too many politicians from all
parties know what they are against - war in Syria, Brussels, international aid -
but they are less keen to say what they are for. A foreign policy vacuum is
forming. We are in danger of drifting from overstretched liberal imperialism to
inward-looking isolationism by default rather than by design.

Although there is an immediate threat to be dealt with in Syria, the debate has
been all about the past. MPs are nervous about taking action against a dictator
who has almost certainly used weapons of mass destruction against his own
people, because these politicians are haunted by the failure to find the same
missiles hidden by Saddam Hussein.

Ed Miliband - convinced that his opposition to the war in Iraq was a key factor
in his victory over his brother in the Labour leadership contest - has seized
the chance to define himself against Tony Blair. He has had the Love Actually
moment that he has long craved, but we are no clearer about the circumstances in
which he would support military action were he to find himself in Downing
Street. Indeed he even seems to be wavering over Syria already, with hints from
the Shadow Cabinet that Labour could yet support future air strikes. There is
lots of special-adviser technocracy in Mr Miliband's roadmap for intervention,
but little prime ministerial leadership.

Mr Cameron, having snubbed Europe by promising a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU, now finds himself forced to turn his back on the United
States as well. Instead of standing shoulder to shoulder with the President, he
must give America the cold shoulder.

There are only so many allies that an island nation can afford to alienate in a
global age. It may be no coincidence that many of the Tories who voted against
involvement in Syria are also staunch Eurosceptics who would prefer to leave the
EU. A fair proportion would also close down the Department for International
Development.

"There's always been an isolationist strain within the Conservative Party," says
one Cabinet minister. "That's been held in check by the legacy of Winston
Churchill and Margaret Thatcher. But now lots of people in my party suffer from
Blair Derangement Syndrome - they assume that anything Tony did must be wrong.
They are also putting their hatred of David Cameron ahead of disapproval of
Bashar Assad."

One senior Tory insists there is no "breach of trust" between No 10 and the
White House, saying: "Barack Obama knows David Cameron did his best." Certainly,
the Prime Minister has made his own views clear on Syria - but he also
spectacularly mishandled the House of Commons last week. I am told that William
Hague wanted to delay the vote until more intelligence had emerged and a
stronger case for intervention had been made, but Mr Cameron listened to George
Osborne, who was urging him to recall Parliament and force an instant decision
out of MPs.

Having rushed headlong into a debate, a defeated Prime Minister then rushed
headlong into ruling out another future vote. "The whole thing was done too
quickly, Judgment was too absolute - it was 100 per cent yes or 100 per cent no
when the world isn't like that," one minister says.

Had the Government waited even a few days to take the question to Parliament,
the result might have been different. Some of those who voted against
intervention are so shocked by evidence that has come out since last Thursday's
debate that they are already reconsidering their position. The Labour Party is
having a collective "oh s***" moment as it realises it may be soon be held
responsible for blocking military action against a dictator who could be found
guilty of gassing children to death in a Damascus suburb.

Of course the West should be wary of intervening in Syria. This is not a region
where anything can be securely ring-fenced. There needs to be much greater
clarity about the OBJECTIVES of military action, and more thought given to what
happens after any air strikes take place. But doing nothing carries risks too.
If red lines are set up and then crossed by a dictator, with no consequences,
then despots all over the world will take that as encouragement to tweak the
tail of the West. Proper processes must be followed, but the United Nations
looks increasingly unfit for purpose, with Russia and China wielding an
ubiquitous veto.

It is true that Mr Blair gave liberal interventionism a bad name in Iraq, with a
flawed Justification for the war as well as failures to plan for what happened
after it. But foreign policy must still be about more than narrow national
interests. There should be a moral as well as a materialistic motivation to
Britain's dealings with the rest of the world. "It's about how we see ourselves
as a nation," says one ministerial hawk. "Would we rather be the sort of people
who will help others or do we want to think 'no, it's me and mine'? We can't
Just appeal to national self-interest. There has to be an appeal to
self-perception and self-esteem."

At lunch on Long Island last week, I met the film director Baz Luhrmann. He was
Just off to China to promote his film Gatsby, one of the few Hollywood movies
granted a licence to be shown there this year. It's easy to see why the Chinese
authorities have allowed their people to see this portrayal of hedonistic 1920s
New York, which has clear contemporary resonances about the hollowness of
selfish capitalism.

There is also, though, a more optimistic moral message about the West. In F.
Scott Fitzgerald's novel, the green light at the end of the dock is a symbol of
hope, a sign of idealism beyond narrow self-interest. In an uncertain age, there
is a greater need than ever for a little idealism. Where is the green light now
shining in Britain's foreign policy?

Hague wanted to delay but Osborne pressed for a quick decision

Foreign policy should be about more than narrow self-interest

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gatsby: the green light on the dock represents hope beyond materialism
SCOPE FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Vulnerable' Tories need to tackle UKIP, warns Coulson

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 660 words


David Cameron is failing to address the Conservatives' "vulnerability" to Nigel
Farage and the UK Independence Party and has not yet done enough to reassure the
public on Europe, Andy Coulson says this week.

The Prime Minister's former director of communications, who is awaiting trial on
charges of conspiracy to hack phones and conspiracy to commit misconduct in a
public office, makes the comments in the latest issue of GQ, which goes on sale
this week.

It represents Mr Coulson's first public intervention since May, when he
suggested that Mr Cameron knows Boris Johnson is after his Job.

The Prime Minister has not done enough on Europe, opening a flank that could be
exploited by UKIP, according to his former spin-doctor and former Editor of the
News of the World.

"Europe will, of course, continue to be the drum that UKIP bangs the loudest,"
Mr Coulson writes. "The Conservatives' post election in/out referendum promise
took the wind out of UKIP sails but more work will need to be done as next
year's European elections approach. On that issue, I'm in no doubt, William
Hague [the Foreign Secretary] is already burning the midnight oil."

The article does not suggest what further steps should be taken on Europe. Among
the options could be a promise to exit from the European Court of Human Rights,
for the Prime Minister to promise to campaign for an EU exit

if he does not secure meaningful concessions.

Mr Coulson wants the Conservative leadership to realise that the party is
mishandling the UKIP threat, and are wrong to cast UKIP members as "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists" as Mr Cameron did in 2006. This only plays to Mr
Farage's advantage, he suggests.

"As a result UKIP has become a club for disgruntled, invariably older Tories fed
up with the leadership's attitude mostly, although not entirely, towards Europe.
More dangerously it allowed the party to present itself as the natural home for
anyone fed up with mainstream politics."

The public flippancy, seen in comments by Ken Clarke, the Minister without
Portfolio, this year that UKIP are "clowns with no positive policies", is
matched by private fear, he asserts.

One of the principle looming dangers comes over television debates. When working
for the Tories in opposition, Mr Coulson strongly argued against Mr Cameron's
participation in such debates, warning that they represented an unnecessary risk
but was overruled by the Prime Minister.

Mr Coulson says that Mr Farage may have a "bit of a point" when he says that a
UKIP "win" in the European elections should mean that he takes part in the
leadership debates 12 months later, foreseeing a Twitter campaign to ensure his
participation.

"The Conservatives should meet the UKIP debating challenge sooner and have
Farage boxed off long before the first TV debate," he says. "It should be led by
a senior Cabinet member, not the PM . . . . Hague, as Foreign Secretary, is
perfectly placed for some net practice on Farage's preferred playing surface of
Europe."

The party should submit Mr Farage, whom he calls "Mr Mirage", to serious
scrutiny. He wants the Tories to produce a YouTube-friendly package of Mr
Farage's "less pleasant and stranger utterances". A £120 billion spending gap
from his policies "must be hung around [Mr Farage's] neck" and questions asked
about where £77 billion of public spending cuts would fall.

Mr Coulson is due to face trial at the Old Bailey next month with Rebekah
Brooks, the former chief executive of News International, over allegations that
they were involved in a conspiracy to intercept voicemails at the nowdefunct
News of the World. Mr Coulson also faces charges over an alleged conspiracy to
pay public officials in exchange for information. Both Mr Coulson and Mrs Brooks
have denied wrongdoing. Last November, appeal court judges ruled that News
International should pay Mr Coulson's legal fees in the case. The company, now
known as News UK, owns The Times.

Tim Montgomerie, Opinion, page 24

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andy Coulson: first comments in public since May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Vulnerable' Tories need to tackle UKIP, warns Coulson

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 661 words


exit if he does not secure meaningful concessions.

Mr Coulson wants the Conservative leadership to realise that the party is
mishandling the UKIP threat, and is wrong to cast UKIP members as "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists" as Mr Cameron did in 2006. This only plays to Mr
Farage's advantage, he suggests.

"As a result UKIP has become a club for disgruntled, invariably older Tories fed
up with the leadership's attitude mostly, although not entirely, towards Europe.
More dangerously it allowed the party to present itself as the natural David
Cameron is failing to address the Conservatives' "vulnerability" to Nigel Farage
and the UK Independence Party and has not yet done enough to reassure the public
on Europe, Andy Coulson says this week.

The Prime Minister's former director of communications, who is awaiting trial on
charges of conspiracy to hack phones and conspiracy to commit misconduct in a
public office, makes the comments in the latest issue of GQ, which goes on sale
this week.

It represents Mr Coulson's first public intervention since May, when he
suggested that Mr Cameron knows Boris Johnson is after his Job.

The Prime Minister has not done enough on Europe, opening a flank that could be
exploited by UKIP, according to his former spin-doctor and former Editor of the
News of the World.

"Europe will, of course, continue to be the drum that UKIP bangs the loudest,"
Mr Coulson writes. "The Conservatives' post election in/out referendum promise
took the wind out of UKIP sails but more work will need to be done as next
year's European elections approach. On that issue, I'm in no doubt, William
Hague [the Foreign Secretary] is already burning the midnight oil."

The article does not suggest what further steps should be taken on Europe. Among
the options could be a promise to exit from the European Court of Human Rights,
or for the Prime Minister to promise to campaign for an EU home for anyone fed
up with mainstream politics."

The public flippancy, seen in comments by Ken Clarke, the Minister without
Portfolio, this year that UKIP are "clowns with no positive policies", is
matched by private fear, he asserts.

One of the principle looming dangers comes over television debates. When working
for the Tories in opposition, Mr Coulson strongly argued against Mr Cameron's
participation in such debates, warning that they represented an unnecessary risk
but was overruled by the Prime Minister.

Mr Coulson says that Mr Farage may have a "bit of a point" when he says that a
UKIP "win" in the European elections should mean that he takes part in the
leadership debates 12 months later, foreseeing a Twitter campaign to ensure his
participation. "The Conservatives should meet the UKIP debating challenge sooner
and have Farage boxed off long before the first TV debate," he says. "It should
be led by a senior Cabinet member, not the PM . . . . Hague, as Foreign
Secretary, is perfectly placed for some net practice on Farage's preferred
playing surface of Europe."

The party should submit Mr Farage, whom he calls "Mr Mirage", to serious
scrutiny. He wants the Tories to produce a YouTube-friendly package of Mr
Farage's "less pleasant and stranger utterances". A £120 billion spending gap
from his policies "must be hung around [Mr Farage's] neck" and questions asked
about where £77 billion of public spending cuts would fall.

Mr Coulson is due to face trial at the Old Bailey next month with Rebekah
Brooks, the former chief executive of News International, over allegations that
they were involved in a conspiracy to intercept voicemails at the nowdefunct
News of the World. Mr Coulson also faces charges over an alleged conspiracy to
pay public officials in exchange for information. Both Mr Coulson and Mrs Brooks
have denied wrongdoing. Last November, appeal court Judges ruled that News
International should pay Mr Coulson's legal fees in the case. The company, now
known as News UK, owns The Times. Tim Montgomerie, Opinion, page 24

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andy Coulson: first comments in public since May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 31, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

The 39 stops: guide to the rebel MPs;
Dominic Kennedy looks at the coalition members who said 'no'

BYLINE: Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 921 words


DAVID AMESS Southend West Independent-minded long-serving backbencher with ten
rebellions since the coalition was formed

RICHARD BACON South Norfolk Regards himself as a party loyalist but puts
constituents and principles first on issues such as abortion where he wants
stricter limits

STEVEN BAKER Wycombe Notably rebellious member of the 2010 intake. Campaigner
against High Speed 2

JOHN BARON Basildon and Billericay Active rebel. Eurosceptic. Tabled successful
motion that forces Government to seek MPs' approval before arming Syrian rebels

ANDREW BINGHAM High Peak Denied reports that David Cameron once said: "What do
you think you are doing? This isn't some f***ing sixth form debating society."

CRISPIN blunt Reigate Junior coalition minister but returned to back benches

FIONA bruce Congleton Normally a loyal member of the coalition's 2010 intake

TRACEY crouch Chatham and Aylesford Usually votes with coalition but one to
watch

DAVID DAVIES MONMOUTH Politically incorrect Welsh bruiser. Ambitious but keeps
putting his foot in his mouth

PHILIP DAVIES Shipley Notorious right-wing rebel.One of "the usual suspects

DAVID DAVIS Haltemprice and Howden Favourite to win the Conservative leadership
in 2005 . Not seen as a loyalist

NICK DE bois Enfield North Secretary of the 1922 Committee of backbenchers,
usually a reliable member of the new intake

South Dorset Independent minded backbencher. Opposed same-sex marriage. Opposed
bail-out for Greece

gordon henderson Sittingbourne and Sheppey Generally dependable but voted for
in-out Europe referendum. Supported stricter curbs on abortion

PHILIP HOLLOBONE Kettering Astonishing record of rebellion. This was 45th since
Mr Cameron became Prime Minister

ADAM HOLLOWAY Gravesham Former Army captain. Highly loyal unless a principle is
at stake

PHILLIP LEE Bracknell Ultra-loyal, patient member of 2010 intake. First
rebellion was against Nick Clegg's doomed plans to reform the House of Lords

JULIAN LEWIS New Forest East Member of Intelligence and Security Committee so
has access to information hidden from public

JASON MCCARTNEY Colne Valley Independent-minded backbencher. Joined early
rebellion against the coalition introducing high tuition fees

STEPHEN MCPARTLAND Stevenage Outspoken MP, usually loyal. Opposed gay marriage
and badger cull. Sought tighter controls on abortion. Voted for in-out Europe
referendum

NIGEL MILLS Amber Valley Supported the "reckless" amendment seen as undermining
David Cameron's negotiating position on the European budget

ANNE-MARIE MORRIS, Newton Abbot Superbly loyal. Only time she blotted her

copy book was when supporting an immediate in-out referendum on Europe

ANDREW PERCY Brigg and Goole Regular rebel on lots of issues: badgers, gays, VAT
on caravans, Commonwealth medals

RICHARD SHEPHERD

ALDRIDGE-BROWNHILLS Veteran of rebellions over EU budget, terror suspects and
fixedterm parliaments

SIR PETER tapsell Louth and Horncastle Father of the House, MP since 1966.
Earned the right to put conscience before party. Occasionally rebels on Europe,
bailouts, constitutional reform. Voted in favour of immediate in-out referendum

ANDREW turner Isle of Wight Opponent of gay marriage. Voted against High Speed
2. Supported a failed rebel amendment in 2010 calling for a new Afghanistan
strategy

MARTIN VICKERS Cleethorpes Generally loyal member of 2010 intake. Supported
immediate in-out EU referendum and stricter abortion limits. A seaside MP, he
voted against VAT on caravans

CHARLES WALKER Broxbourne Much loved MP who made moving speech about mental
illness admitting his obsessive-compulsive disorder made him a "practising
fruitcake". Unofficial counsellor to MPs

CHRIS WHITE WARWICK and Leamington Well behaved member of the new intake but
provoked into rebellion by High Speed 2 threatening the beauty of Warwickshire.
Will this now become a habit? sarah wollaston Totnes High profile new
backbencher chosen by the Conservative Party's first "open primary". Prominent
independent voice in the media but only rebels occasionally.

GORDON BIRTWISTLE Burnley Highly independent new MP. Opposed to gay marriage.
Rebelled against Nick Clegg on tuition fees

MICHAEL CROCKART Edinburgh West Briefly given responsibility as parliamentary
private secretary to the Scottish Secretary Michael Moore. Resigned to vote
against tuition fees

ANDREW GEORGE St Ives Disgruntled. Recorded voting against the party 55 times
since coalition formed. Campaigns on quirky issues such as the Prince of Wales'
powers

JULIAN HUPPERT Cambridge Usually loyal backbencher. Chairman of All-Party
Parliamentary Cycling Group. Rebels on liberal issues of principle such as
detention of terror suspects

DAN ROGERSON North Cornwall Early rebel on tuition fees. Since then usually toed
party line. As a Cornishman, voted against the pasty tax

ANDREW STUNELL Hazel Grove Ultra-loyal long serving MP. Served as local
government minister but returned to backbenches in reshuffle last year ian
swales Redcar Usually loyal but rebelled on tuition fees.

Voted in favour of banning smoking in cars where children were passengers.
Opposed the pasty tax sarah teather Brent Central Slightly awkward. Sacked from
her education role last year. Described the "go home" illegal immigrant vans as
racist graffiti. Voted against gay marriage

roger williams Brecon and Radnorshire Long serving backbencher. Usually reliable
supporter of Coalition. Rebelled against tuition fees. Supporter of election
reform to allow foreign residents to vote in Westminster elections Source of
voting statistics: The Public Whip

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Lib Dem Sarah Teather can be awkward, but the Tory Fiona Bruce is
usually loyal
David Davis is no loyalist, but Sarah Wollaston is only an occasional rebel
A man holds a dead child among bodies laid out in the Duma area of Damsacus.
Activists say they were killed by nerve gas
BASSAM KHABIEH / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 31, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The 39 stops: guide to the rebel MPs

BYLINE: Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 920 words


DAVID AMESS Southend West Independent-minded long-serving backbencher with ten
rebellions since the coalition was formed

RICHARD BACON South Norfolk Regards himself as a party loyalist but puts
constituents and principles first on issues such as abortion where he wants
stricter limits

STEVEN BAKER Wycombe Notably rebellious member of the 2010 intake. Campaigner
against High Speed 2

JOHN BARON Basildon and Billericay Active rebel. Eurosceptic. Tabled successful
motion that forces Government to seek MPs' approval before arming Syrian rebels

ANDREW BINGHAM High Peak Denied reports that David Cameron once said: "What do
you think you are doing? This isn't some f***ing sixth form debating society."

CRISPIN BLUNT Reigate Junior coalition minister but returned to back benches

FIONA BRUCE Congleton Normally a loyal member of the coalition's 2010 intake

TRACEY CROUCH Chatham and Aylesford Usually votes with coalition but one to
watch

DAVID DAVIES Monmouth Politically incorrect Welsh bruiser. Ambitious but keeps
putting his foot in his mouth

PHILIP DAVIES Shipley Notorious right-wing rebel.One of "the usual suspects

DAVID DAVIS Haltemprice and Howden Favourite to win the Conservative leadership
in 2005 . Not seen as a loyalist

NICK DE BOIS Enfield North Secretary of the 1922 Committee of backbenchers,
usually a reliable member of the new intake

RICHARD DRAX South Dorset Independent minded backbencher. Opposed same-sex
marriage. Opposed bail-out for Greece

GORDON HENDERSON Sittingbourne and Sheppey Generally dependable but voted for
in-out Europe referendum. Supported stricter curbs on abortion

PHILIP HOLLOBONE Kettering Astonishing record of rebellion. This was 45th since
Mr Cameron became Prime Minister

ADAM HOLLOWAY

Gravesham Former Army captain. Highly loyal unless a principle is at stake

PHILLIP LEE Bracknell

Ultra-loyal, patient member of 2010 intake. First rebellion was against Nick
Clegg's doomed plans to reform the House of Lords

JULIAN LEWIS New Forest East Member of Intelligence and Security Committee so
has access to information hidden from public

JASON MCCARTNEY Colne Valley Independent-minded backbencher. Joined early
rebellion against the coalition introducing high tuition fees

STEPHEN MCPARTLAND

Stevenage Outspoken MP, usually loyal. Opposed gay marriage and badger cull.
Sought tighter controls on abortion. Voted for in-out Europe referendum

NIGEL MILLS Amber Valley Supported the "reckless" amendment seen as undermining
David Cameron's negotiating position on the European budget

ANNE-MARIE MORRIS,

Newton Abbot Superbly loyal. Only time she blotted her copy book was when
supporting an immediate in-out referendum on Europe

ANDREW PERCY Brigg and Goole Regular rebel on lots of issues: badgers, gays, VAT
on caravans, Commonwealth medals

RICHARD SHEPHERD

Aldridge-Brownhills Veteran of rebellions over EU budget, terror suspects and
fixedterm parliaments

SIR PETER TAPSELL Louth and Horncastle Father of the House, MP since 1966.
Earned the right to put conscience before party. Occasionally rebels on Europe,
bailouts, constitutional reform. Voted in favour of immediate in-out referendum

ANDREW TURNER Isle of

Wight Opponent of gay marriage. Voted against High Speed 2. Supported a failed
rebel amendment in 2010 calling for a new Afghanistan strategy

MARTIN VICKERS Cleethorpes

Generally loyal member of 2010 intake. Supported immediate in-out EU referendum
and stricter abortion limits. A seaside MP, he voted against VAT on caravans

CHARLES WALKER

Broxbourne Much loved MP who made moving speech about mental illness admitting
his obsessive-compulsive disorder made him a "practising fruitcake". Unofficial
counsellor to MPs

CHRIS WHITE Warwick and Leamington Well behaved member of the new intake but
provoked into rebellion by High Speed 2 threatening the beauty of Warwickshire.
Will this now become a habit?

SARAH WOLLASTON Totnes High profile new backbencher chosen by the Conservative
Party's first "open primary". Prominent independent voice in the media but only
rebels occasionally.

GORDON BIRTWISTLE

Burnley Highly independent new MP. Opposed to gay marriage. Rebelled against
Nick Clegg on tuition fees

MICHAEL CROCKART

Edinburgh West Briefly given responsibility as parliamentary private secretary
to the Scottish Secretary Michael Moore. Resigned to vote against tuition fees

ANDREW GEORGE St Ives

Disgruntled. Recorded voting against the party 55 times since coalition formed.
Campaigns on quirky issues such as the Prince of Wales' powers

JULIAN HUPPERT Cambridge

Usually loyal backbencher. Chairman of All-Party Parliamentary Cycling Group.
Rebels on liberal issues of principle such as detention of terror suspects

DAN ROGERSON North

Cornwall Early rebel on tuition fees. Since then usually toed party line. As a
Cornishman, voted against the pasty tax

ANDREW STUNELL Hazel

Grove Ultra-loyal long serving MP. Served as local government minister but
returned to backbenches in reshuffle last year

IAN SWALES Redcar

Usually loyal but rebelled on tuition fees. Voted in favour of banning smoking
in cars where children were passengers. Opposed the pasty tax

SARAH TEATHER Brent

Central Slightly awkward. Sacked from her education role last year. Described
the "go home" illegal immigrant vans as racist graffiti. Voted against gay
marriage

ROGER WILLIAMS Brecon and Radnorshire Long serving backbencher. Usually reliable
supporter of Coalition. Rebelled against tuition fees. Supporter of election
reform to allow foreign residents to vote in Westminster elections

Source of voting statistics:

The Public Whip

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Lib Dem Sarah Teather can be awkward, but the Tory Fiona Bruce is
usually loyal
David Davis is no loyalist, but Sarah Wollaston is only an occasional rebel
A man holds a dead child among bodies laid out in the Duma area of Damsacus.
Activists say they were killed by nerve gas
BASSAM KHABIEH / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 31, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The 39 stops: guide to the rebel MPs;
Dominic Kennedy looks at the coalition members who said 'no'

BYLINE: Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 922 words


DAVID AMESS Southend West Independent-minded long-serving backbencher with ten
rebellions since the coalition was formed

RICHARD BACON South Norfolk Regards himself as a party loyalist but puts
constituents and principles first on issues such as abortion where he wants
stricter limits

STEVEN BAKER Wycombe Notably rebellious member of the 2010 intake. Campaigner
against High Speed 2

JOHN BARON Basildon & Billericay Active rebel. Eurosceptic. Tabled successful
motion that forces Government to seek MPs' approval before arming Syrian rebels

ANDREW BINGHAM High Peak Denied reports that David Cameron once said: "What do
you think you are doing? This isn't some f***ing sixth-form debating society."

CRISPIN BLUNT Reigate Junior coalition minister but returned to backbenches

FIONA BRUCE Congleton Normally a loyal member of the coalition's 2010 intake

TRACEY CROUCH Chatham & Aylesford Usually votes with coalition but one to watch

DAVID DAVIES Monmouth Politically incorrect Welsh bruiser. Ambitious but keeps
putting his foot in his mouth

PHILIP DAVIES Shipley Notorious right-wing rebel.One of "the usual suspects"

DAVID DAVIS Haltemprice & Howden Favourite to win the Conservative leadership in
2005. Not seen as a loyalist

NICK DE bois Enfield North Secretary of the 1922 Committee of backbenchers,
usually a reliable member of the new intake

RICHARD DRAX South Dorset Independent-minded backbencher. Opposed same-sex
marriage. Opposed bailout for Greece

GORDON HENDERSON Sittingbourne &Sheppey Generally dependable but voted for
in-out Europe referendum. Supported stricter curbs on abortion

PHILIP HOLLOBONE Kettering Astonishing record of rebellion. This was 45th since
Mr Cameron became Prime Minister

ADAM HOLLOWAY Gravesham Former Army captain. Highly loyal unless a principle is
at stake

PHILLIP LEE BRACKNELL Ultra-loyal, patient member of 2010 intake. First
rebellion was against Nick Clegg's doomed plans to reform the House of Lords

JULIAN LEWIS New Forest East Member of Intelligence and Security Committee, so
has access to information hidden from public

JASON McCARTNEY Colne Valley Independent-minded backbencher. Joined early
rebellion against the coalition introducing high tuition fees

STEPHEN MCPARTLAND Stevenage Outspoken MP, usually loyal. Opposed gay marriage
and badger cull. Sought tighter controls on abortion. Voted for in-out Europe
referendum

NIGEL MILLS Amber Valley Supported the "reckless" amendment seen as undermining
David Cameron's negotiating position on the European

budget anne marie morris, Newton Abbot Superbly loyal. Only time she blotted her
copy book was when supporting an immediate in-out referendum on Europe andrew
percy Brigg & Goole Regular rebel on lots of issues: badgers, gays, VAT on
caravans, Commonwealth medals richard shepherd Aldridge-Brownhills Veteran of
rebellions over EU budget, terror suspects, fixed-term parliaments

SIR PETER tapsell Louth and Horncastle Father of the House, MP since 1966.
Earned the right to put conscience before party. Occasionally rebels on Europe,
bailouts, constitutional reform. Voted in favour of immediate in-out referendum

ANDREW TURNER Isle of Wight Opponent of gay marriage. Voted against High Speed
2. Supported a failed rebel amendment in 2010 calling for a new Afghanistan
strategy

MARTIN VICKERS Cleethorpes Generally loyal member of 2010 intake. Supported
immediate in-out EU referendum and stricter abortion limits. A seaside MP, he
voted against VAT on caravans

CHARLES WALKER Broxbourne Much-loved MP who made moving speech about mental
illness, admitting his obsessive-compulsive disorder made him a "practising
fruitcake". Unofficial counsellor to MPs

CHRIS WHITE Warwick and Leamington Well-behaved member of the new intake but
provoked into rebellion by High Speed 2 threatening the beauty of Warwickshire.
Will this now become a habit?

SARAH WOLLASTON Totnes High-profile new backbencher chosen by the Conservative
Party's first "open primary". Prominent independent voice in the media but only
rebels occasionally.

GORDON BIRTWISTLE Burnley Highly independent new MP. Opposed to gay marriage.
Rebelled against Nick Clegg on tuition fees

MICHAEL CROCKART Edinburgh West Briefly given responsibility as parliamentary
private secretary to the Scottish Secretary Michael Moore. Resigned to vote
against tuition fees

ANDREW GEORGE St Ives Disgruntled. Recorded voting against the party 55 times
since coalition formed. Campaigns on quirky issues such as the Prince of Wales's
powers Julian huppert Cambridge Usually loyal backbencher. Chairman of All-Party
Parliamentary Cycling Group. Rebels on liberal issues of principle such as
detention of terror suspects dan rogerson North Cornwall Early rebel on tuition
fees. Since then usually toed party line. As a Cornishman, voted against the
pasty tax andrew stunell Hazel Grove Ultra-loyal longserving MP. Served as local
government minister but returned to backbenches in reshuffle last year ian
swales Redcar Usually loyal but rebelled on tuition fees. Voted in favour of
banning smoking in cars where children were passengers. Opposed the pasty tax
sarah teather Brent Central Slightly awkward. Sacked from her education role
last year. Described the "go home" illegal immigrant vans as racist graffiti.
Voted against gay marriage roger williams Brecon and

Radnorshire Longserving backbencher. Usually reliable supporter of Coalition.
Rebelled against tuition fees. Supporter of election reform to allow foreign
residents to vote in Westminster elections Source of voting statistics: The
Public Whip

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Lib Dem Sarah Teather can be awkward, but the Tory Fiona Bruce is
usually loyal
David Davis is no loyalist, but Sarah Wollaston is only an occasional rebel
A man holds a dead child among bodies laid out in the Duma area of Damascus.
Activists say they were killed by nerve gas
BASSAM KHABIEH / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 28, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Commonwealth citizens 'should lose right to vote'

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 430 words


More than one million Commonwealth immigrants could swing the result of a
general election or EU referendum unless their right to vote is curbed,
according to a report published today. Under rules dating back to the British
Empire, non-British citizens from 54 Commonwealth countries are entitled to vote
if they live in Britain.

The report, by MigrationWatch UK, estimates that by the 2015 election there will
be more than one million Commonwealth citizens who can vote but who do not have
citizenship.

Sir Andrew Green, the chairman of MigrationWatch, which campaigns for lower
immigration, said: "The public will be astonished to learn that nearly one
million foreign citizens from countries that do not allow British residents to
vote in their countries are allowed to vote in all British elections.

"This is a hangover from the days of Empire and should not have been allowed to
continue, especially given the rapid increase in immigration from Commonwealth
countries."

He said that if the next general election is close, the outcome could be
influenced by a group of people who are not yet British citizens.

The 2011 census data showed that there were 960,000 Commonwealth citizens living
in England and Wales who are not British citizens but have the right to vote.
This total includes only those who would be eligible to vote in 2015,
MigrationWatch UK said.

In 2007, the Labour Government ordered a review of British citizenship laws by
Lord Goldsmith, QC, who was the Attorney General, but did not act on his advice
that is should make a "clear connection between citizenship and the right to
vote".

MigrationWatch suggests that Labour refused to act because voters from black and
minority ethnic communities were more likely to vote Labour than Liberal
Democrat or Tory.

The report said that if the turnout of Commonwealth citizens is similar to the
national average it could amount to half a million votes. In 2005, Labour had a
margin of 750,000. The report said voting rights should be restricted, except
for Commonwealth countries which grant British citizens reciprocal voting
rights.

Commonwealth citizens can vote in local, general, European and devolved assembly
elections. Residents of the European Economic Area can vote in local, European
and devolved assembly polls, but not in general elections. The Representation of
the People Act, 1918, decreed that only British subjects could register as
electors, but "British subjects" included any person who owed allegiance to the
Crown, regardless of the Crown Territory in which they were born. It has never
been revised.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 28, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Commonwealth citizens 'should lose right to vote'

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 429 words


More than one million Commonwealth immigrants could swing the result of a
general election or EU referendum unless their right to vote is curbed,
according to a report published today. Under rules dating back to the British
Empire, non-British citizens from 54 Commonwealth countries are entitled to vote
if they live in Britain.

The report, by MigrationWatch UK, estimates that by the 2015 election there will
be more than one million Commonwealth citizens who can vote but who do not have
citizenship.

Sir Andrew Green, the chairman of MigrationWatch, which campaigns for lower
immigration, said: "The public will be astonished to learn that nearly one
million foreign citizens from countries that do not allow British residents to
vote in their countries are allowed to vote in all British elections.

"This is a hangover from the days of Empire and should not have been allowed to
continue, especially given the rapid increase in immigration from Commonwealth
countries."

He said that if the next general election is close, the outcome could be
influenced by a group of people who are not yet British citizens.

The 2011 census data showed that there were 960,000 Commonwealth citizens living
in England and Wales who are not British citizens but have the right to vote.
This total includes only those who would be eligible to vote in 2015,
MigrationWatch UK said.

In 2007, the Labour Government ordered a review of British citizenship laws by
Lord Goldsmith, QC, who was the Attorney General, but did not act on his advice
that is should make a "clear connection between citizenship and the right to
vote".

MigrationWatch suggests that Labour refused to act because voters from black and
minority ethnic communities were more likely to vote Labour than Liberal
Democrat or Tory.

The report said that if the turnout of Commonwealth citizens is similar to the
national average it could amount to half a million votes. In 2005, Labour had a
margin of 750,000. The report said voting rights should be restricted, except
for Commonwealth countries which grant British citizens reciprocal voting
rights.

Commonwealth citizens can vote in local, general, European and devolved assembly
elections. Residents of the European Economic Area can vote in local, European
and devolved assembly polls, but not in general elections.

The Representation of the People Act, 1918, decreed that only British subJects
could register as electors, but "British subJects" included any person who owed
allegiance to the Crown, regardless of the Crown Territory in which they were
born. It has never been revised.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 28, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Commonwealth citizens 'should lose right to vote'

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 430 words


More than one million Commonwealth immigrants could swing the result of a
general election or EU referendum unless their right to vote is curbed,
according to a report published today. Under rules dating back to the British
Empire, non-British citizens from 54 Commonwealth countries are entitled to vote
if they live in Britain.

The report, by MigrationWatch UK, estimates that by the 2015 election there will
be more than one million Commonwealth citizens who can vote but who do not have
citizenship.

Sir Andrew Green, the chairman of MigrationWatch, which campaigns for lower
immigration, said: "The public will be astonished to learn that nearly one
million foreign citizens from countries that do not allow British residents to
vote in their countries are allowed to vote in all British elections.

"This is a hangover from the days of Empire and should not have been allowed to
continue, especially given the rapid increase in immigration from Commonwealth
countries."

He said that if the next general election is close, the outcome could be
influenced by a group of people who are not yet British citizens.

The 2011 census data showed that there were 960,000 Commonwealth citizens living
in England and Wales who are not British citizens but have the right to vote.
This total includes only those who would be eligible to vote in 2015,
MigrationWatch UK said.

In 2007, the Labour Government ordered a review of British citizenship laws by
Lord Goldsmith, QC, who was the Attorney-General, but did not act on his advice
that is should make a "clear connection between citizenship and the right to
vote".

MigrationWatch suggests that Labour refused to act because voters from black and
minority ethnic communities were more likely to vote Labour than Liberal
Democrat or Tory.

The report said that if the turnout of Commonwealth citizens was similar to the
national average it could amount to half a million votes. In 2005 Labour had a
margin of 750,000. The report said that voting rights should be restricted,
except for Commonwealth countries which grant British citizens reciprocal voting
rights.

Commonwealth citizens can vote in local, general, European and devolved assembly
elections. Residents of the European Economic Area can vote in local, European
and devolved assembly polls, but not in general elections.

The Representation of the People Act, 1918, decreed that only British subJect
could register as electors, but "British subjects" included any person who owed
allegiance to the Crown, regardless of the Crown Territory in which they were
born. It has never been revised.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 20, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

How Will Politicians Vote?;
Political parties must be transparent about their strategy for any hung
Parliament

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 566 words


This summer has put a spring in the Tory step. Signs of an economic recovery,
unity around the European referendum pledge, the popularity of welfare policies
and Labour infighting mean that Conservative MPs are in upbeat mood.

David Cameron is not getting carried away, however. Privately, his advisers
concede that it will be hard to win a parliamentary majority. Mr Cameron will
buck forty years of electoral precedents if he adds to the percentage of the
Tory vote at the next election. He'll also be attempting to perform this feat
with UKIP eating into his right flank and potentially detaching hundreds of
thousands of supporters from his 2010 vote.

It's sensible therefore for the Tory leader and Britain's other leading
politicians to be preparing for the likelihood that there will be another hung
Parliament. Long-term changes to the electoral map mean we are not so much
seeing the decline of the two-party system but the emergence of multiple
two-party systems. In parts of Britain the battle remains between the Tories and
Labour but there are also numerous seats where the battle is between nationalist
parties such as the SNP and Labour; or between the Liberal Democrats and Labour
in urban and northern Britain; and so on. It is increasingly tricky for any one
party to emerge victorious from this mosaic of two party contests.

Two factors made the coalition negotiations of 2010 relatively straightforward.
First was the basic parliamentary arithmetic. Even if Nick Clegg had wanted to
ally with Gordon Brown the combination of Labour and Lib Dem MPs would not have
added up to a majority in the Commons. The second factor was the sense of
economic crisis that prevailed in May 2010. Tory and Lib Dem MPs who were not
enthusiastic about the Cameron-Clegg alliance were warned that electors might
punish them if they were seen to be putting the party before the national
interest.

If both a Lib-Lab and Lib-Con pact are numerically possible after the next
election the negotiating position of those Lib Dem MPs who are reelected will be
stronger. At the same time many Tory MPs will refuse to be bounced into any deal
by the threat of economic crisis. Talks could become protracted.

Once the votes are counted the influence of ordinary voters will be limited. It
will be politicians, in closed-door negotiations, who will decide who is our
prime minister. Now is the time for voters to demand transparency from the
political parties.

All of the party leaders should be expected to say which parts of their
manifestos might be given up in negotiations and which represent unbreakable
promises. Will Mr Cameron, for example, abandon his EU referendum pledge if it
means his welfare reforms can continue? It will be particularly important for
the Lib Dems, as likely kingmakers, to be transparent about how they will
behave. Will they prefer to support the party with the most votes or MPs or, on
the other hand, the party most likely to deliver on deficit reduction; or are
they willing to be "bought" by any party that offers them electoral reform or a
mansion tax? And who will ratify any coalition agreement? Voters should know who
they are empowering when they vote Tory, Labour or Lib Dem. Are they giving
power to the party leader, to MPs, to grassroot members or all three? Each party
should spell out how the formation of our likely next government and its
programme might be agreed.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             August 16, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Germany Becomes the Motherland;
Merkel's re-election will be a victory for austerity and unshowy politics

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 562 words


The German people call her "Mutti". According to Der Spiegel "mummy is someone
who takes care of the home, makes life pleasant and keeps worries at bay".
Unlike postwar European politics' other dominant female figure, the late
Margaret Thatcher, Germany's Chancellor since 2005 is not a divisive figure.
Everything about Angela Merkel - her rhetoric, campaigning style and even her
wardrobe - seems designed to reassure.

She did not always intend to be such a consensual leader. When she first stood
for the Chancellery she advocated major tax reforms but, demonised by her
opponents and burnt by the experience, she has never returned to such
radicalism.

Her first four years in office were spent in a grand coalition with the
left-leaning Social Democratic Party and she developed habits of operating that
have stayed with her. Most notable is her magpie-like tendency to adopt her
opponents' policies whenever they are popular. This has led her, for example, to
oppose nuclear power (at some cost to German industry and consumers) and to
support a cap on rent increases and the introduction of a minimum wage. Her
Christian Democrats have always been much more comfortable with social
protection measures than British Tories but under Mrs Merkel that sense of the
social market economy has deepened.

And Germany likes what she represents. Boosted by this week's news that Europe's
most important economy is growing again, her party is again set to be the
largest after next month's elections. It is unclear whether she will again
govern with the liberal Free Democrats or whether she will have to seek a second
grand coalition. The only thing that is certain is that she will remain in
office: 58 per cent of voters would like the world's most powerful woman to
remain Chancellor. Only 27 per cent of Germans want to hand management of the
continuing eurozone crisis to the leader of the SPD, Peer Steinbrück.

David Cameron's and Mrs Merkel's relationship did not start well. She was
unhappy at his decision to take Tory MEPs out of the EPP group in the European
Parliament, in which her CDU sits. She also objected to his early attempts to
get Germany to direct more assistance to the eurozone's southern economies.
Today, however, relations between London and Berlin are often better than
between Paris and Berlin. In the past 48 hours she appears to have given
approval to a modest renegotiation of Britain's relationship with the European
Union. This would probably be enough to help Mr Cameron win his promised In/Out
referendum but probably not enough to satisfy Tory backbenchers who hunger for a
more radical redrawing of Britain's relationship with Brussels.

Mr Cameron's other interest in Mrs Merkel's re-election is more basic. Like Mr
Cameron, Mrs Merkel supports austerity. Launching her re-election campaign this
week she told supporters that "we have seen in Europe what happens when debts
are too high. Growth on borrowed money - that's impossible." Mr Cameron couldn't
have put it better himself. He will also be glad to see another incumbent
re-elected. There was a time when the financial crash was sweeping governments
from power. Barack Obama was the first major leader to buck the trend. If Mrs
Merkel becomes the second, Mr Cameron will be more confident that voters are
deciding it's better to hold on to nurse - or Mutti - for fear of something
worse.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             August 16, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Germany Becomes the Motherland;
Merkel's re-election will be a victory for austerity and unshowy politics

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 562 words


The German people call her "Mutti". According to Der Spiegel "mummy is someone
who takes care of the home, makes life pleasant and keeps worries at bay".
Unlike postwar European politics' other dominant female figure, the late
Margaret Thatcher, Germany's Chancellor since 2005 is not a divisive figure.
Everything about Angela Merkel - her rhetoric, campaigning style and even her
wardrobe - seems designed to reassure.

She did not always intend to be such a consensual leader. When she first stood
for the Chancellery she advocated maJor tax reforms but, demonised by her
opponents and burnt by the experience, she has never returned to such
radicalism.

Her first four years in office were spent in a grand coalition with the
left-leaning Social Democratic Party and she developed habits of operating that
have stayed with her. Most notable is her magpie-like tendency to adopt her
opponents' policies whenever they are popular. This has led her, for example, to
oppose nuclear power (at some cost to German industry and consumers) and to
support a cap on rent increases and the introduction of a minimum wage. Her
Christian Democrats have always been much more comfortable with social
protection measures than British Tories but under Mrs Merkel that sense of the
social market economy has deepened.

And Germany likes what she represents. Boosted by this week's news that Europe's
most important economy is growing again, her party is again set to be the
largest after next month's elections. It is unclear whether she will again
govern with the liberal Free Democrats or whether she will have to seek a second
grand coalition. The only thing that is certain is that she will remain in
office: 58 per cent of voters would like the world's most powerful woman to
remain Chancellor. Only 27 per cent of Germans want to hand management of the
continuing eurozone crisis to the leader of the SPD, Peer Steinbrück.

David Cameron's and Mrs Merkel's relationship did not start well. She was
unhappy at his decision to take Tory MEPs out of the EPP group in the European
Parliament, in which her CDU sits. She also obJected to his early attempts to
get Germany to direct more assistance to the eurozone's southern economies.
Today, however, relations between London and Berlin are often better than
between Paris and Berlin. In the past 48 hours she appears to have given
approval to a modest renegotiation of Britain's relationship with the European
Union. This would probably be enough to help Mr Cameron win his promised In/Out
referendum but probably not enough to satisfy Tory backbenchers who hunger for a
more radical redrawing of Britain's relationship with Brussels.

Mr Cameron's other interest in Mrs Merkel's re-election is more basic. Like Mr
Cameron, Mrs Merkel supports austerity. Launching her re-election campaign this
week she told supporters that "we have seen in Europe what happens when debts
are too high. Growth on borrowed money - that's impossible." Mr Cameron couldn't
have put it better himself. He will also be glad to see another incumbent
re-elected. There was a time when the financial crash was sweeping governments
from power. Barack Obama was the first maJor leader to buck the trend. If Mrs
Merkel becomes the second, Mr Cameron will be more confident that voters are
deciding it's better to hold on to nurse - or Mutti - for fear of something
worse.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Don't panic, Mr Miliband. Here's how to win;
If Labour wants power it must scrap HS2, introduce workfare and promise an EU
vote

BYLINE: Matthew Elliott

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 855 words


As Ed Miliband returns from his phone-free holiday, the last person he would
probably call for advice is the founder of the TaxPayers' Alliance but, since
it's currently open season on the Labour leader, here I am. Hopefully he'll
appreciate some constructive advice from an unlikely source.

Many of the Labour voices filling the airwaves seem to be advocating a radical
change of course: a substantial reshuffle, star hires and big changes in policy.
The volume of this chorus is more a reflection of the lack of news than the size
of the problem. It's worth remembering that Labour only needs a three-point lead
in the percentage of the vote to secure an overall majority, compared with an
11-point lead needed by the Conservatives. And this is before the UKIP factor,
which by eroding the Tory vote could easily scupper David Cameron's chance of
staying prime minister.

So with two key structural factors running in Labour's favour, Ed Miliband's
team shouldn't fall into a pit of despair.The first thing it should do is return
to the most successful theme of his leadership.

Mr Miliband was the first to identify the "squeezed middle" as the battleground
on which the 2015 election will be fought, and Labour's recent focus on the
rising cost of living at a time of stagnant wages is striking a chord with the
electorate. What is needed now are a few key policy changes that could deliver
practical help to the "squeezed middle" and also stitch Labour's broad themes
into a coherent narrative.

First of all, Labour need to make their fiscal policy add up. Their opposition
to unpopular "Tory cuts" - not least the so-called bedroom tax - has no doubt
played well with the party faithful, but every time they oppose deficit-reducing
measures they undermine any sense that they can be trusted to balance the books.
Labour needs to match the overall Tory spending envelope but find other ways of
offering some differentiation.

The most readily available pot of cash is in the big, expensive infrastructure
projects. Of these the one with the biggest outlay and most flaky financial
grounding is high-speed rail. Only last month, the cost of HS2 was revised
upwards from £30 billion to £42 billion, with some predicting that the figure
will rise above £70 billion. For this reason two big Labour beasts, Peter
Mandelson and Alistair Darling, have already switched sides and become
opponents. The HS2 budget would be better invested in overcrowded and
unelectrified commuter routes, and to reduce the cost of the daily commute for
people who have seen fares increase by more than 50 per cent in the past ten
years.

While junking HS2 would be a large step towards paying for some more
"striver"-friendly ideas (and ending all welfare for those earning more than
£100,000 would give him £5 billion more to play with), Ed Miliband still needs
to come up with a welfare policy that will stop the Tories stealing the
blue-collar vote. David Cameron's £26,000 cap on benefits is easily
understandable and appealing to your average working family. Labour need a
similarly big idea.

Fortunately there is a ready-made policy that has been implemented with great
success in the US, Australia and Canada, and that has drawn supportive noises on
the British left from people such as the MP Frank Field and the columnist Polly
Toynbee. Bill Clinton's workfare policy, which would require benefit claimants
to undertake compulsory activity that they are physically able to do, would fit
squarely within the contributory principle that Ed Miliband has called for and
show that Labour are on the side of those who want to work.

Finally, Labour need to produce a credible European policy. So far Ed Miliband
has, understandably, not wanted to commit his party to a potentially disruptive
vote on the EU. But as Labour's poll lead narrows and with a new EU treaty in
the next few years now virtually inevitable, the danger of Labour looking out of
sync with both British and European opinion is growing. Labour shouldn't stop
with a referendum promise, however. By setting out a wider ambition for European
reform - not least by focusing on freezing Britain's contribution to the EU and
reforming the Common Agricultural Policy - Mr Miliband can reinforce the sense
that he's on the side of the taxpayer and the consumer.

Will Straw, of the left-leaning Institute for Public Policy Research, has set
out a package of sensible, Labour-friendly ideas that would, for example, give
the British Parliament powers to block new EU legislation. In these three areas
- government spending, welfare and the EU - Labour need simple, memorable
policies that will define them as the real voice of the squeezed middle. The
election battlefield is tilted in their favour, but having correctly identified
their target audience they need policies to back it up. Scrapping unpopular
policies such as HS2 to fund help for the low-paid; introducing workfare; and
ending Labour's pro-EU reputation would give Ed Miliband the streetwise policies
that he lacks.

Matthew Elliott is chief executive of Business for Britain

Ed Miliband needs a 3-point lead to win, Tories an 11-point one

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ditching the unpopular HS2 would help to free up funds for the low-paid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Don't panic, Mr Miliband. Here's how to win;
If Labour wants power it must scrap HS2, introduce workfare and promise an EU
vote

BYLINE: Matthew Elliott

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 855 words


As Ed Miliband returns from his phone-free holiday, the last person he would
probably call for advice is the founder of the TaxPayers' Alliance but, since
it's currently open season on the Labour leader, here I am. Hopefully he'll
appreciate some constructive advice from an unlikely source.

Many of the Labour voices filling the airwaves seem to be advocating a radical
change of course: a substantial reshuffle, star hires and big changes in policy.
The volume of this chorus is more a reflection of the lack of news than the size
of the problem. It's worth remembering that Labour only needs a three-point lead
in the percentage of the vote to secure an overall maJority, compared with an
11-point lead needed by the Conservatives. And this is before the UKIP factor,
which by eroding the Tory vote could easily scupper David Cameron's chance of
staying prime minister.

So with two key structural factors running in Labour's favour, Ed Miliband's
team shouldn't fall into a pit of despair.The first thing it should do is return
to the most successful theme of his leadership.

Mr Miliband was the first to identify the "squeezed middle" as the battleground
on which the 2015 election will be fought, and Labour's recent focus on the
rising cost of living at a time of stagnant wages is striking a chord with the
electorate. What is needed now are a few key policy changes that could deliver
practical help to the "squeezed middle" and also stitch Labour's broad themes
into a coherent narrative.

First of all, Labour need to make their fiscal policy add up. Their opposition
to unpopular "Tory cuts" - not least the so-called bedroom tax - has no doubt
played well with the party faithful, but every time they oppose deficit-reducing
measures they undermine any sense that they can be trusted to balance the books.
Labour needs to match the overall Tory spending envelope but find other ways of
offering some differentiation.

The most readily available pot of cash is in the big, expensive infrastructure
proJects. Of these the one with the biggest outlay and most flaky financial
grounding is high-speed rail. Only last month, the cost of HS2 was revised
upwards from £30 billion to £42 billion, with some predicting that the figure
will rise above £70 billion. For this reason two big Labour beasts, Peter
Mandelson and Alistair Darling, have already switched sides and become
opponents. The HS2 budget would be better invested in overcrowded and
unelectrified commuter routes, and to reduce the cost of the daily commute for
people who have seen fares increase by more than 50 per cent in the past ten
years.

While Junking HS2 would be a large step towards paying for some more
"striver"-friendly ideas (and ending all welfare for those earning more than
£100,000 would give him £5 billion more to play with), Ed Miliband still needs
to come up with a welfare policy that will stop the Tories stealing the
blue-collar vote. David Cameron's £26,000 cap on benefits is easily
understandable and appealing to your average working family. Labour need a
similarly big idea.

Fortunately there is a ready-made policy that has been implemented with great
success in the US, Australia and Canada, and that has drawn supportive noises on
the British left from people such as the MP Frank Field and the columnist Polly
Toynbee. Bill Clinton's workfare policy, which would require benefit claimants
to undertake compulsory activity that they are physically able to do, would fit
squarely within the contributory principle that Ed Miliband has called for and
show that Labour are on the side of those who want to work.

Finally, Labour need to produce a credible European policy. So far Ed Miliband
has, understandably, not wanted to commit his party to a potentially disruptive
vote on the EU. But as Labour's poll lead narrows and with a new EU treaty in
the next few years now virtually inevitable, the danger of Labour looking out of
sync with both British and European opinion is growing. Labour shouldn't stop
with a referendum promise, however. By setting out a wider ambition for European
reform - not least by focusing on freezing Britain's contribution to the EU and
reforming the Common Agricultural Policy - Mr Miliband can reinforce the sense
that he's on the side of the taxpayer and the consumer.

Will Straw, of the left-leaning Institute for Public Policy Research, has set
out a package of sensible, Labour-friendly ideas that would, for example, give
the British Parliament powers to block new EU legislation. In these three areas
- government spending, welfare and the EU - Labour need simple, memorable
policies that will define them as the real voice of the squeezed middle. The
election battlefield is tilted in their favour, but having correctly identified
their target audience they need policies to back it up. Scrapping unpopular
policies such as HS2 to fund help for the low-paid; introducing workfare; and
ending Labour's pro-EU reputation would give Ed Miliband the streetwise policies
that he lacks.

Matthew Elliott is chief executive of Business for Britain

Ed Miliband needs a 3-point lead to win, Tories an 11-point one

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ditching the unpopular HS2 would help to free up funds for the low-paid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP's Bongo Bongo Moment;
It is a chance for Nigel Farage to put the national interest first

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 549 words


In the dark imagination of the UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom British taxpayers' money
is being used to buy fast cars and super-sized weapons for autocratic African
leaders in what he called "bongo bongo land". If this money was returned to
Britain, we'd apparently be able to pay down our debts and ensure pensioners
enJoyed much better healthcare and benefits.

The real world is very different from his parallel universe. There are still too
many examples of corruption in African states but, as Justin Forsyth sets out on
today's Opinion pages, those stories are not typical because the fight against
global poverty is being won. Over the past 20 years better targeted aid
policies, the spread of free markets and new technologies have lifted hundreds
of millions of people towards prosperity. If Britain and other rich nations
stopped giving generously to the world's poorest people we put that progress at
risk. Nor would not solve our own fiscal challenges by cutting development
spending. We could feasibly scrap all of our aid budget and 80 per cent of our
deficit would remain.

In his "bongo bongo" phrase Mr Bloom was playing to populist preJudice. He was
inviting his audience to believe that the developing world is frozen in time,
frozen in poverty and beyond our help. He did so at precisely the time that
Africa is providing some of the world's most exciting growth opportunities.

Mr Bloom's attitude to the developing world and his previous misogyny about the
role of women in society go to the heart of UKIP's weakness as a political
proposition. UKIP is a party that will always appeal to voters who feel that the
world is heading in the wrong direction. The attitude used to dominate sections
of the Conservative Party. Indeed there may be a significant slice of the
electorate that will support candidates who yearn for a lost Britain and would
prefer the country to pull up the drawbridge and ignore the rest of the world.

At some point Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader, needs to decide if his party is to
become a genuinely constructive player in politics or if he is content for it to
remain the equivalent of the pub Joker. Pursuing the latter option should mean
that UKIP will continue to win 7 to 10 per cent of the national vote and get
attention from the media. Mr Farage's regular place as chief entertainer on
BBC's Question Time would be guaranteed, as would the likelihood of continuing
UKIP representation in the European Parliament. It will also mean that UKIP will
continue to divide the centre right and Eurosceptic vote. By taking such a
disproportionate number of votes from the Tories UKIP only increases the
possibility that Ed Miliband will be Britain's next prime minister. That means a
referendum on Britain's place in the EU will not occur.

If Mr Farage wants to play a constructive and historic role he will start to
plot a path towards guaranteeing that a vote on Britain's membership of the EU
happens. That might mean some sort of temporary political disarmament at the
next general election. Many of his followers may not approve of such a path but
it would put the national interest above his party's. He will need to confront
the more implacable elements of UKIP to achieve such an outcome. Confronting Mr
Bloom's views would be a good first step in that process.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UKIP's Bongo Bongo Moment;
It is a chance for Nigel Farage to put the national interest first

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 549 words


In the dark imagination of the UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom British taxpayers' money
is being used to buy fast cars and super-sized weapons for autocratic African
leaders in what he called "bongo bongo land". If this money was returned to
Britain, we'd apparently be able to pay down our debts and ensure pensioners
enjoyed much better healthcare and benefits.

The real world is very different from his parallel universe. There are still too
many examples of corruption in African states but, as Justin Forsyth sets out on
today's Opinion pages, those stories are not typical because the fight against
global poverty is being won. Over the past 20 years better targeted aid
policies, the spread of free markets and new technologies have lifted hundreds
of millions of people towards prosperity. If Britain and other rich nations
stopped giving generously to the world's poorest people we put that progress at
risk. Nor would not solve our own fiscal challenges by cutting development
spending. We could feasibly scrap all of our aid budget and 80 per cent of our
deficit would remain.

In his "bongo bongo" phrase Mr Bloom was playing to populist prejudice. He was
inviting his audience to believe that the developing world is frozen in time,
frozen in poverty and beyond our help. He did so at precisely the time that
Africa is providing some of the world's most exciting growth opportunities.

Mr Bloom's attitude to the developing world and his previous misogyny about the
role of women in society go to the heart of UKIP's weakness as a political
proposition. UKIP is a party that will always appeal to voters who feel that the
world is heading in the wrong direction. The attitude used to dominate sections
of the Conservative Party. Indeed there may be a significant slice of the
electorate that will support candidates who yearn for a lost Britain and would
prefer the country to pull up the drawbridge and ignore the rest of the world.

At some point Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader, needs to decide if his party is to
become a genuinely constructive player in politics or if he is content for it to
remain the equivalent of the pub joker. Pursuing the latter option should mean
that UKIP will continue to win 7 to 10 per cent of the national vote and get
attention from the media. Mr Farage's regular place as chief entertainer on
BBC's Question Time would be guaranteed, as would the likelihood of continuing
UKIP representation in the European Parliament. It will also mean that UKIP will
continue to divide the centre right and Eurosceptic vote. By taking such a
disproportionate number of votes from the Tories UKIP only increases the
possibility that Ed Miliband will be Britain's next prime minister. That means a
referendum on Britain's place in the EU will not occur.

If Mr Farage wants to play a constructive and historic role he will start to
plot a path towards guaranteeing that a vote on Britain's membership of the EU
happens. That might mean some sort of temporary political disarmament at the
next general election. Many of his followers may not approve of such a path but
it would put the national interest above his party's. He will need to confront
the more implacable elements of UKIP to achieve such an outcome. Confronting Mr
Bloom's views would be a good first step in that process.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Opinion pages don't have to give both sides

BYLINE: Rose Wild

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 909 words


Farnham in Surrey seems an unlikely hotbed of republicanism, but Nigel Lindsey,
of that parish, claimed to speak for many like-minded spirits when he wrote to
complain about Monday's leading article on the monarchy.

One phrase in the leader particularly got his goat, "The royal birth may provoke
curmudgeons". This, he says, "is an insulting and inaccurate choice of words. It
is not necessary to be a republican to obJect to the hysterical and absurd
treatment of the royal birth."

Our coverage of "this non-event", he continues, "suggests that The Times is out
of touch with the rest of us - or at least a sizeable majoritys. We are having a
referendum on an institution which many people do not want to be part of - the
EU - but we are not allowed a debate about this anachronistic institution called
the monarchy. Please have some respect for us dissenters. Freedom of speech,
democracy? Where is it?"

Not in our pages, apparently, although readers have been exercising their
freedom to speak in copious numbers on our website, and on the Letters page. Not
good enough for Mr Lindsey: we have a duty, he says, to represent both sides of
the argument "in an even-handed fashion.

Obviously I am in favour of a republic but really all I want to see is fully
obJective debate on the merits or otherwise of our current system. It seems
unlikely that politicians will have this debate in Parliament without public
opinion first leading the way. The Times has some responsibility, does it not,
to lead the debate?"

It's a fair enough question, but the answer is "no", or at least not in the way
Mr Lindsey would like. The Times has opinions on most matters, which it
expresses in the leading articles. It also has a long tradition of entertaining
contrary views in the Opinion pages, such as, on this subJect, Philip Collins's
recent column. What we don't have is an obligation to give equal weight to all
sides. Tim Montgomerie, The Times Opinion editor, explains.

"The Times Opinion pages should always be characterised by a broad diversity of
view rather than a mathematical balance. The pages will always find room for
intelligent arguments from every part of the ideological spectrum but you are
also likely to see more views that are in line with the newspaper's optimistic
world view and its core, internationalist values."

Suspect surveys

Paul Hykin, writes from Saint-Cyr-sur-Mer, France: "On Monday you published as a
statistical fact that 25 per cent of parents will buy holiday coaching for their
children, and on Tuesday that 1 in 8 Britons was unhappy about what is written
about them online. Both of these were based on surveys, conducted by
organisations with, potentially, a vested interest in the outcomes. Have you
Just fallen for their press releases?"

I put this to Jeremy Griffin, The Times home editor. "We are offered the results
of masses of surveys," he says. "We try to be as selective as possible about the
ones on which we report. The size of the respondent pool is obviously one of the
main factors we consider and we are always up front about who has commissioned
the survey because, as your correspondent writes, often it is a company with a
commercial interest in the outcome.

"Some surveys and polls are to be taken more seriously than others. So, for
example, data from the ONS and YouGov, which we use to conduct our political
polls, is robust and based on statistically approved demographic models. Many of
the surveys we receive from outside organisations will also meet these criteria
- but some might not and, if that's the case, it will be apparent by the way we
have treated the findings."

But are these surveys "news"? "We are here to entertain as well as inform,"
Jeremy says. "Used in the right way, with due deference to the more pressing
matters which populate our pages, social trends can at least help to raise a
smile or provide a topic of conversation on the train to work."

Gate crash

Peter Brent, from Caterham, Surrey, wants us to stop sticking "-gate" on
everything.

"I believe that this suffix has its origins in the break-in at the Democratic
National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington DC
on June 17, 1972, over 40 years ago." Correct.

"A quick search of your archive found the following 'gates' - spygate, liegate,
Twittergate, tyregate, fag-packet-gate, swivel-gate, shouty spouse-gate [Shouty
spouse-gate? He's making this up, surely, Ed], plebgate, bloodgate, crashgate,
handgate, Henrygate and, back in 2007, Cheriegate. I cannot believe it is beyond
the wit of your Journalists to find another term for a scandal."

His faith is touching, but maybe we don't want to. Its survival over 40 years
seems proof of its usefulness, and it can be very funny. By the way, should the
original scandal now be known as Watergategate?

"That's it," writes James Lawson from the 19th hole, Chelmsford. "You have one
reader less. I have put up with your birdie man, or so-called sports commentator
[could he mean Simon Barnes?] for many years but now we have your resident
republican Crampton equating golfers with sexism. It's a pity some of your
writers are all metropolitan and don't get out more. Goodbye." Oh dear.

And finally, a vintage handbagging from Pamela Lowe. "Please tell Andrew Billen
that your older readers are neither 'wrinklies' nor 'old codgers'. He would do
well to drop the condescending ageist bias and concentrate on writing
constructive criticism of television programmes."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Opinion pages don't have to give both sides

BYLINE: Rose Wild

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 909 words


Farnham in Surrey seems an unlikely hotbed of republicanism, but Nigel Lindsey,
of that parish, claimed to speak for many like-minded spirits when he wrote to
complain about Monday's leading article on the monarchy.

One phrase in the leader particularly got his goat, "The royal birth may provoke
curmudgeons". This, he says, "is an insulting and inaccurate choice of words. It
is not necessary to be a republican to obJect to the hysterical and absurd
treatment of the royal birth."

Our coverage of "this non-event", he continues, "suggests that The Times is out
of touch with the rest of us - or at least a sizeable MAJORITY. We are having a
referendum on an institution which many people do not want to be part of - the
EU - but we are not allowed a debate about this anachronistic institution called
the monarchy. Please have some respect for us dissenters. Freedom of speech,
democracy? Where is it?"

Not in our pages, apparently, although readers have been exercising their
freedom to speak in copious numbers on our website, and on the Letters page. Not
good enough for Mr Lindsey: we have a duty, he says, to represent both sides of
the argument "in an even-handed fashion.

Obviously I am in favour of a republic but really all I want to see is fully
obJective debate on the merits or otherwise of our current system. It seems
unlikely that politicians will have this debate in Parliament without public
opinion first leading the way. The Times has some responsibility, does it not,
to lead the debate?"

It's a fair enough question, but the answer is "no", or at least not in the way
Mr Lindsey would like. The Times has opinions on most matters, which it
expresses in the leading articles. It also has a long tradition of entertaining
contrary views in the Opinion pages, such as, on this subJect, Philip Collins's
recent column. What we don't have is an obligation to give equal weight to all
sides. Tim Montgomerie, The Times Opinion editor, explains.

"The Times Opinion pages should always be characterised by a broad diversity of
view rather than a mathematical balance. The pages will always find room for
intelligent arguments from every part of the ideological spectrum but you are
also likely to see more views that are in line with the newspaper's optimistic
world view and its core, internationalist values."

Suspect surveys

Paul Hykin, writes from Saint-Cyr-sur-Mer, France: "On Monday you published as a
statistical fact that 25 per cent of parents will buy holiday coaching for their
children, and on Tuesday that 1 in 8 Britons was unhappy about what is written
about them online. Both of these were based on surveys, conducted by
organisations with, potentially, a vested interest in the outcomes. Have you
Just fallen for their press releases?"

I put this to Jeremy Griffin, The Times home editor. "We are offered the results
of masses of surveys," he says. "We try to be as selective as possible about the
ones on which we report. The size of the respondent pool is obviously one of the
main factors we consider and we are always up front about who has commissioned
the survey because, as your correspondent writes, often it is a company with a
commercial interest in the outcome.

"Some surveys and polls are to be taken more seriously than others. So, for
example, data from the ONS and YouGov, which we use to conduct our political
polls, is robust and based on statistically approved demographic models. Many of
the surveys we receive from outside organisations will also meet these criteria
- but some might not and, if that's the case, it will be apparent by the way we
have treated the findings."

But are these surveys "news"? "We are here to entertain as well as inform,"
Jeremy says. "Used in the right way, with due deference to the more pressing
matters which populate our pages, social trends can at least help to raise a
smile or provide a topic of conversation on the train to work."

Gate crash Peter Brent, from Caterham, Surrey, wants us to stop sticking "-gate"
on everything.

"I believe that this suffix has its origins in the break-in at the Democratic
National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington DC
on June 17, 1972, over 40 years ago." Correct.

"A quick search of your archive found the following 'gates' - spygate, liegate,
Twittergate, tyregate, fag-packet-gate, swivel-gate, shouty spouse-gate [Shouty
spouse-gate? He's making this up, surely, Ed], plebgate, bloodgate, crashgate,
handgate, Henrygate and, back in 2007, Cheriegate. I cannot believe it is beyond
the wit of your Journalists to find another term for a scandal."

His faith is touching, but maybe we don't want to. Its survival over 40 years
seems proof of its usefulness, and it can be very funny. By the way, should the
original scandal now be known as Watergategate?

"That's it," writes James Lawson from the 19th hole, Chelmsford. "You have one
reader less. I have put up with your birdie man, or so-called sports commentator
[could he mean Simon Barnes?] for many years but now we have your resident
republican Crampton equating golfers with sexism. It's a pity some of your
writers are all metropolitan and don't get out more. Goodbye." Oh dear.

And finally, a vintage handbagging from Pamela Lowe. "Please tell Andrew Billen
that your older readers are neither 'wrinklies' nor 'old codgers'. He would do
well to drop the condescending ageist bias and concentrate on writing
constructive criticism of television programmes."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Can the Conservatives broaden their appeal?;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 532 words


Sir, The idea to which Tim Montgomerie gives least space ("Five ways to widen
the Tory appeal and win", Opinion, July 29) is probably the most important of
his five suggestions, though only as a part of a larger housing and
infrastructure scheme. Encouraging young people, when jobs are no longer for
life, to take on extra debt in the form of mortgages does not seem like a policy
to engender growth, however beneficent the initial terms. Over the past 25 years
we have seen the misery that fluctuating interest rates and repossessions have
caused.

In 2008 the banks were bailed out by the Labour Government which then failed to
take advantage of its strong bargaining position. Alistair Darling should have
insisted that as a condition of the bail-out the banks lend to local government
at favourable rates (guaranteed by central government) so that a programme of
building houses and infrastructure could be introduced.

The knock-on effect of this would be that a large number of people would be
spending in the high street, boosting the whole economy. The next advantage is
pure Keynesian economics. Reduce the demand for houses by having subsidised
rentals available and the prices will stabilise.

It is not too late. All that is needed is political will, pressure on the banks
that the public own and a move away from the mantra of "must get on the housing
ladder now". It could do wonders for the Conservative Party's election prospects
as well.

lord layton Pedwell, Somerset Sir, There is one pledge that is missing from the
"famous five" that Tim Montgomerie would put on the Conservative card for the
next election. That is a commitment to raise the minimum wage so that it becomes
a living wage. Low pay is the single biggest cause of poverty in this country.
Such a pledge would honour the Conservative principle that individuals should be
enabled to take care of themselves, and the Labour principle that we should be
fair to the poorest and neediest in our society. simon loveday Wells, Somerset
Sir, If all of Tim Montgomerie's five policies were implemented, with the
possible exception of the apprenticeships, they would have scarcely any impact
on the real challenges: healthcare, exports, manufacturing and debt reduction.
dr david b. cook Sheffield, S Yorks Sir, Full marks to Tim Montgomerie for
confirming what the Conservative Party's pledge for an EU referendum is really
about, ie, to keep the party united. I had always hoped, rather naively perhaps,
that a party in government should govern in the best interests of the country.
Nobody knows whether most people actually want an EU referendum - where's the
evidence confirming this? What we do know is that the Conservative Party is
mightily worried about losing votes to UKIP and that's where the pledge for a
referendum has come from. So, never mind that inward investment to the UK is
potentially damaged as long as the pledge for a referendum results in more votes
for the Conservatives. james watts Purley, Surrey Sir, How about a sixth pledge
to show David Cameron's honesty and integrity: that there will be no more
top-down reorganisation of the NHS. Who then could doubt his sincerity. w. b.
hughes Rugby, Warks

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Voters ponder the Tory programme in 1951: what does the modern party
need?
KEYSTONE-FRANCE / GAMMA-KEYSTONE / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Can the Conservatives broaden their appeal?;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 530 words


Sir, The idea to which Tim Montgomerie gives least space ("Five ways to widen
the Tory appeal and win", Opinion, July 29) is probably the most important of
his five suggestions, though only as a part of a larger housing and
infrastructure scheme. Encouraging young people, when Jobs are no longer for
life, to take on extra debt in the form of mortgages does not seem like a policy
to engender growth, however beneficent the initial terms. Over the past 25 years
we have seen the misery that fluctuating interest rates and repossessions have
caused.

In 2008 the banks were bailed out by the Labour Government which then failed to
take advantage of its strong bargaining position. Alistair Darling should have
insisted that as a condition of the bail-out the banks lend to local government
at favourable rates (guaranteed by central government) so that a programme of
building houses and infrastructure could be introduced.

The knock-on effect of this would be that a large number of people would be
spending in the high street, boosting the whole economy. The next advantage is
pure Keynesian economics. Reduce the demand for houses by having subsidised
rentals available and the prices will stabilise.

It is not too late. All that is needed is political will, pressure on the banks
that the public own and a move away from the mantra of "must get on the housing
ladder now". It could do wonders for the Conservative Party's election prospects
as well.

LORD LAYTON

Pedwell, Somerset

Sir, There is one pledge that is missing from the "famous five" that Tim
Montgomerie would put on the Conservative card for the next election. That is a
commitment to raise the minimum wage so that it becomes a living wage. Low pay
is the single biggest cause of poverty in this country. Such a pledge would
honour the Conservative principle that individuals should be enabled to take
care of themselves, and the Labour principle that we should be fair to the
poorest and neediest in our society.

SIMON LOVEDAY

Wells, Somerset

Sir, If all of Tim Montgomerie's five policies were implemented, with the
possible exception of the apprenticeships, they would have scarcely any impact
on the real challenges: healthcare, exports, manufacturing and debt reduction.
dr david b. cook Sheffield, S Yorks Sir, Full marks to Tim Montgomerie for
confirming what the Conservative Party's pledge for an EU referendum is really
about, ie, to keep the party united. I had always hoped, rather naively perhaps,
that a party in government should govern in the best interests of the country.
Nobody knows whether most people actually want an EU referendum - where's the
evidence confirming this? What we do know is that the Conservative Party is
mightily worried about losing votes to UKIP and that's where the pledge for a
referendum has come from. So, never mind that inward investment to the UK is
potentially damaged as long as the pledge for a referendum results in more votes
for the Conservatives.

JAMES WATTS

Purley, Surrey

Sir, How about a sixth pledge to show David Cameron's honesty and integrity:
that there will be no more top-down reorganisation of the NHS. Who then could
doubt his sincerity.

W. B. HUGHES

Rugby, Warks

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Voters ponder the Tory programme in 1951: what does the modern party
need?
KEYSTONE-FRANCE / GAMMA-KEYSTONE / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 30, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory activists learn to love the coalition

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 318 words


Enthusiasm for the coalition among Conservative activists has risen sharply in
three months, despite demands from Tories to break from the Liberal Democrats
before the election.

A survey carried out by the ConservaTIVEHOME website found that a majority of
respondents - 59 per cent - believe the coalition is "overall a good thing for
the nation", up from 47 per cent at the start of May.

This follows a successful stint for David Cameron and his party, with signs of
accelerating economic growth and policy progress.

The Tory wing of the coalition has been increasingly emboldened in recent weeks,
most notably launching the series of "go-home" billboards, targeting illegal
migrants, without the approval of Lib Dems.

However, Tory MPs suggest that they would be wary of allowing Mr Cameron to form
another coalition if the Tories fail to win an overall majority at the next
election but still have the largest parliamentary party.

A majority of Tory activists still see the coalition as bad for the party, but
even this number has dropped from 71 per cent in May to 61 per cent in the
latest survey of 710 members.

Paul Goodman, editor of ConservatiVEHOME, said: "These results reflect the fact
Abu Qatada has gone, an EU referendum Bill is here, the benefits cap is in
place, the economy is gradually recovering. David Cameron is handling his
parliamentary party better, and Ed Miliband is on the back foot over welfare and
Unite."

The sentiment is echoed beyond the Tory party, with YouGov's daily polling
showing an average Labour lead down to around about six points. UKIP is polling
around 10 per cent of the vote, which some senior Tories believe they can
present as a vote for Labour closer to the election.

Yesterday UKIP welcomed the defection of Lee Gilroy and Karl Williamson, the
chairman and deputy chairman of the Crawley Conservative Association, following
reports that they had been asked to resign.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 30, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory activists learn to love the coalition

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 318 words


Enthusiasm for the coalition among Conservative activists has risen sharply in
three months, despite demands from Tories to break from the Liberal Democrats
before the election.

A survey carried out by the ConservativeHome website found that a maJority of
respondents - 59 per cent - believe the coalition is "overall a good thing for
the nation", up from 47 per cent at the start of May.

This follows a successful stint for David Cameron and his party, with signs of
accelerating economic growth and policy progress.

The Tory wing of the coalition has been increasingly emboldened in recent weeks,
most notably launching the series of "go-home" billboards, targeting illegal
migrants, without the approval of Lib Dems.

However, Tory MPs suggest that they would be wary of allowing Mr Cameron to form
another coalition if the Tories fail to win an overall maJority at the next
election but still have the largest parliamentary party.

A maJority of Tory activists still see the coalition as bad for the party, but
even this number has dropped from 71 per cent in May to 61 per cent in the
latest survey of 710 members.

Paul Goodman, editor of ConservativeHome, said: "These results reflect the fact
Abu Qatada has gone, an EU referendum Bill is here, the benefits cap is in
place, the economy is gradually recovering. David Cameron is handling his
parliamentary party better, and Ed Miliband is on the back foot over welfare and
Unite."

The sentiment is echoed beyond the Tory party, with YouGov's daily polling
showing an average Labour lead down to around about six points. UKIP is polling
around 10 per cent of the vote, which some senior Tories believe they can
present as a vote for Labour closer to the election.

Yesterday UKIP welcomed the defection of Lee Gilroy and Karl Williamson, the
chairman and deputy chairman of the Crawley Conservative Association, following
reports that they had been asked to resign.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 29, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Five ways to widen the Tory appeal and win;
Victory in 2015 is possible if the party can rediscover its popular touch with
these pledges to lower-income voters

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1137 words


At the last election, the Conservatives hoped you would vote for David Cameron
and his vision of the Big Society. It wasn't enough. Voters found the Tories too
ill-defined and if you don't define yourself, your opponents do the defining for
you.

The next election represents a different challenge for Tory strategists. By
2015, voters are likely to see the Tories as a party of deficit reduction,
welfare control and Euroscepticism. The party's 2015 campaign will need to
reinforce those strengths but it will also need to address the party's residual
vulnerabilities. In particular, the Conservatives need to counter the key
Liberal Democrat claim that if it hadn't been for coalition, the Tories would
have governed for the already rich and powerful. The next Tory manifesto must
put a concern for lower-income Britons at its heart. I offer five big
suggestions to Mr Cameron.

l No more tax on your petrol or your home energy bill Two weeks ago George
Osborne appeared to put the issue of tax at the heart of the next election. The
Chancellor's suggestion that tax rises would not be necessary to complete the
task of deficit reduction was greeted by centre-right newspapers as a welcome
return to low-tax Toryism. One week later, however, Mr Cameron used a TV
interview to backpedal. He refused to give any "blanket assurance" about the
level of tax in the next Parliament.

A Downing Street source let it be known that the Chancellor could have chosen
his words a little more carefully.

Some sort of Tory tax pledge is essential, however. During the last Parliament
the Tories spent too much time worrying about Guardian-minded voters and not
nearly enough about Sun-minded voters. Lynton Crosby, the Australian election
guru who has masterminded the Tories' sharper messaging of recent months, won't
allow the same mistake to be repeated. The Tories might announce a further
freeze in council tax but possibly more potent would be a promise to cap duties
on petrol and subsidies of green energy, which are inflating consumers' gas and
electricity bills. If you only get your news from the Today programme you might
think that the cuts are the biggest issue in politics. They're not. It's the
cost of living. The average voter is much more worried about the rising costs of
housing, food, petrol and household energy.

2 A higher pension and a lower welfare cap If the Conservatives were really
serious about deficit reduction they would have taken an axe to some pensioner
benefits but if the public sector is Labour's great vested interest, the grey
vote is the great Tory vested interest. I, personally, would restrict some
pensioner benefits but a faster move to link the retirement age to life
expectancy is probably the best policy that we can expect from the Tories. If Mr
Cameron promises to protect the incomes of existing pensioners - while
tightening the hugely popular welfare cap - he will have a winning electoral
message. I also expect the Tories to promise to limit benefits to larger
families with many children. Up until now, the Liberal Democrats have vetoed
this policy.

3 Help for more first-time buyers to own their own homes and ... 4 More
apprenticeships for Britain's youngest workers If pensioners and homeowners are
core to the existing Tory vote then tomorrow's homeowners and earners are the
key to an expanded Tory vote. Labour expands its core vote by increasing the
extent and generosity of state benefits. Tories extend their core vote by
increasing the number of people who own their own home and work in the private
sector. Homes and jobs should, therefore, be big themes of the next Tory
campaign. Hopefully, the Tories will find a better policy than the emergency
Help to Buy scheme. Increasing demand in a market where supply is inelastic (you
can't build a million new homes quickly) will only cause more socially exclusive
house price inflation.

5 A referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union Mr Cameron's pledge
may not have recruited many new voters yet but few policies have done more to
reunite the parliamentary Tory Party. After years of Europe being a source of
division in Tory ranks it is (at least temporarily) a source of unity. And let's
not forget that it's a referendum policy as much as a Europe policy. The other
two main parties, who oppose a referendum, are in danger of looking like parties
that don't trust the people. Mr Cameron, in contrast, can use his "trust the
people" pledge to address the still lingering perception that he's too much part
of the political establishment.

By 2015 it's likely that both Labour and the Liberal Democrats will have matched
the Tory referendum promise but, if they haven't, it will be impossible for Mr
Cameron to compromise in coalition negotiations. His party would descend into
civil war if he abandoned this pledge and he would never be trusted again. What
is more likely is that it will be the Liberal Democrats who will acquiesce. It
wasn't so long ago, after all, that an In/Out vote was Lib Dem policy. It's also
true that the mainstream of Nick Clegg's parliamentary party is not as Europhile
as its leader, Danny Alexander or the party's grandees in the Lords. Many
Liberal Democrat MPs - probably most - want some kind of referendum on Britain's
relationship with the EU to be in their party's manifesto and I suspect they'll
prevail.

THERE are many other pledges that might or should have been highlighted.
Protection of the NHS budget, for example. Promising to complete deficit
reduction. Holding down net immigration to the tens of thousands. Opening more
free schools. Building airport and energy infrastructure fit for the 21st
century. Some or all of these pledges could feature in a full Tory manifesto. In
a 1,000-or-so word article my aim wasn't, however, to create a programme for
British renaissance; simply to outline some key election messages.

Overall, the pledges do two things. They open up the possibility of the Tories
reaching more voters than at the last election but they don't close the door to
a second Lib Dem-Tory coalition. This is Mr Cameron's big fear. He fears that
any double-or-quits campaign to win a Tory majority (by, for example,
emphasising policies such as much stricter control of immigration or replacement
of human rights laws) will push the Lib Dems into Labour hands should it fail.

This pledge list communicates a Toryism that's different from the right-wing
narrowness of, say, the 2001 and 2005 campaigns but is also much earthier than
the campaign of 2010. It communicates some key Tory messages on tax, consumer
bills, pensions, welfare, home ownership, earnings, and trusting people. Most
importantly - in an age when voters worry about the believability of
politicians' promises - it's deliverable.

They need to counter the charge that they only represent the rich

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: How a pledge card from David Cameron to the electorate might look in
2015

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 29, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Five ways to widen the Tory appeal and win;
Victory in 2015 is possible if the party can rediscover its popular touch with
these pledges to lower-income voters

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1142 words


CONSERVATIVE CONSERVATIVE At the last election, the Conservatives hoped you
would vote for David Cameron and his vision of the Big Society. It wasn't
enough. Voters found the Tories too ill-defined and if you don't define
yourself, your opponents do the defining for you.

The next election represents a different challenge for Tory strategists. By
2015, voters are likely to see the Tories as a party of deficit reduction,
welfare control and Euroscepticism. The party's 2015 campaign will need to
reinforce those strengths but it will also need to address the party's residual
vulnerabilities. In particular, the Conservatives need to counter the key
Liberal Democrat claim that if it hadn't been for coalition, the Tories would
have governed for the already rich and powerful. The next Tory manifesto must
put a concern for lower-income Britons at its heart. I offer five big
suggestions to Mr Cameron.

l No more tax on your petrol or your home energy bill Two weeks ago George
Osborne appeared to put the issue of tax at the heart of the next election. The
Chancellor's suggestion that tax rises would not be necessary to complete the
task of deficit reduction was greeted by centre-right newspapers as a welcome
return to low-tax Toryism. One week later, however, Mr Cameron used a TV
interview to backpedal. He refused to give any "blanket assurance" about the
level of tax in the next Parliament.

A Downing Street source let it be known that the Chancellor could have chosen
his words a little more carefully.

Some sort of Tory tax pledge is essential, however. During the last Parliament
the Tories spent too much time worrying about Guardian-minded voters and not
nearly enough about Sun-minded voters. Lynton Crosby, the Australian election
guru who has masterminded the Tories' sharper messaging of recent months, won't
allow the same mistake to be repeated. The Tories might announce a further
freeze in council tax but possibly more potent would be a promise to cap duties
on petrol and subsidies of green energy, which are inflating consumers' gas and
electricity bills. If you only get your news from the Today programme you might
think that the cuts are the biggest issue in politics. They're not. It's the
cost of living. The average voter is much more worried about the rising costs of
housing, food, petrol and household energy.

2 A higher pension and a lower welfare cap If the Conservatives were really
serious about deficit reduction they would have taken an axe to some pensioner
benefits but if the public sector is Labour's great vested interest, the grey
vote is the great Tory vested interest. I, personally, would restrict some
pensioner benefits but a faster move to link the retirement age to life
expectancy is probably the best policy that we can expect from the Tories. If Mr
Cameron promises to protect the incomes of existing pensioners - while
tightening the hugely popular welfare cap - he will have a winning electoral
message. I also expect the Tories to promise to limit benefits to larger
families with many children. Up until now, the Liberal Democrats have vetoed
this policy.

3 Help for more first-time buyers to own their own homes and ... 4 More
apprenticeships for Britain's youngest workers If pensioners and homeowners are
core to the existing Tory vote then tomorrow's homeowners and earners are the
key to an expanded Tory vote. Labour expands its core vote by increasing the
extent and generosity of state benefits. Tories extend their core vote by
increasing the number of people who own their own home and work in the private
sector. Homes and Jobs should, therefore, be big themes of the next Tory
campaign. Hopefully, the Tories will find a better policy than the emergency
Help to Buy scheme. Increasing demand in a market where supply is inelastic (you
can't build a million new homes quickly) will only cause more socially exclusive
house price inflation.

5 A referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union Mr Cameron's pledge
may not have recruited many new voters yet but few policies have done more to
reunite the parliamentary Tory Party. After years of Europe being a source of
division in Tory ranks it is (at least temporarily) a source of unity. And let's
not forget that it's a referendum policy as much as a Europe policy. The other
two main parties, who oppose a referendum, are in danger of looking like parties
that don't trust the people. Mr Cameron, in contrast, can use his "trust the
people" pledge to address the still lingering perception that he's too much part
of the political establishment.

By 2015 it's likely that both Labour and the Liberal Democrats will have matched
the Tory referendum promise but, if they haven't, it will be impossible for Mr
Cameron to compromise in coalition negotiations. His party would descend into
civil war if he abandoned this pledge and he would never be trusted again. What
is more likely is that it will be the Liberal Democrats who will acquiesce. It
wasn't so long ago, after all, that an In/Out vote was Lib Dem policy. It's also
true that the mainstream of Nick Clegg's parliamentary party is not as Europhile
as its leader, Danny Alexander or the party's grandees in the Lords. Many
Liberal Democrat MPs - probably most - want some kind of referendum on Britain's
relationship with the EU to be in their party's manifesto and I suspect they'll
prevail.

THERE are many other pledges that might or should have been highlighted.
Protection of the NHS budget, for example. Promising to complete deficit
reduction. Holding down net immigration to the tens of thousands. Opening more
free schools. Building airport and energy infrastructure fit for the 21st
century. Some or all of these pledges could feature in a full Tory manifesto. In
a 1,000-or-so word article my aim wasn't, however, to create a programme for
British renaissance; simply to outline some key election messages.

Overall, the pledges do two things. They open up the possibility of the Tories
reaching more voters than at the last election but they don't close the door to
a second Lib Dem-Tory coalition. This is Mr Cameron's big fear. He fears that
any double-or-quits campaign to win a Tory maJority (by, for example,
emphasising policies such as much stricter control of immigration or replacement
of human rights laws) will push the Lib Dems into Labour hands should it fail.

This pledge list communicates a Toryism that's different from the right-wing
narrowness of, say, the 2001 and 2005 campaigns but is also much earthier than
the campaign of 2010. It communicates some key Tory messages on tax, consumer
bills, pensions, welfare, home ownership, earnings, and trusting people. Most
importantly - in an age when voters worry about the believability of
politicians' promises - it's deliverable.

They need to counter the charge that they only represent the rich

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: How a pledge card from David Cameron to the electorate might look in
2015

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Fizzy drinks giant hit by EU rules on Israeli settlements

BYLINE: Catherine Philp Eizariya

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 739 words


Five days a week, for 12 hours at a time, Faiz Abedy stands by a chugging
conveyor belt, picking off SodaStream bottles and packing them into boxes to be
sent around the world.

It is "exhausting, backbreaking work" but he is grateful for it. His salary,
three times that of the average Palestinian worker, rescued his family from
destitution. Now he worries that international politics have put their future in
doubt.

The SodaStream factory, a mile from his home in the West Bank, sits inside a
sprawling Jewish settlement, one of the targets of new European Union measures
aimed at putting pressure on Israel to stop building on seized Palestinian land.
Guidelines issued last week prohibiting EU funds for Israeli entities in the
occupied territories have been credited for pushing Binyamin Netanyahu, the
Israeli Prime Minister, towards fresh peace talks.

Now Brussels is preparing to draft fresh proposals requiring that products
originating from the settlements be labelled as such.

EU officials say this would help consumers to make more informed choices. At
present, goods from settlements in the occupied territories are labelled as
those from within Israel's internationally recognised borders. Brussels wants
consumers to know that such goods were produced in Israeli occupied territory.

Israel's Economics Minister, Naftali Bennett, denounced the moves as "an
economic terror attack".

The Palestinian Authority called for Brussels to go further, with a boycott on
settlement goods - like the sanctions that helped bring down apartheid in South
Africa. "We would like to see the day that no goods from settlements are on sale
anywhere in the world," the Palestinian deputy economic minister, Abd-AlHafeez,
said. Such a day would mean disaster for SodaStream, which produces fizzy
drink-makers in an industrial park attached to the West Bank's biggest
settlement, Ma'ale Adumim.

More than 70 per cent of its $30 million (£20 million) annual earnings come from
Europe.

Pro-Palestinian activists in Europe, Canada and the United States have urged
consumers to boycott Soda-Stream along with other settlementbased companies.
Last October, a coalition of non-profit groups, including Christian Aid and the
Methodist Church, issued a report accusing EU countries of helping to sustain
illegal settlements by importing 15 times more goods made there than in
Palestinian-run towns in the West Bank. In Eizarya, the Palestinian town that
provides half of SodaStream's workforce, feelings are sharply divided. The
community's economy went into freefall after Israel erected its vast concrete
"security barrier" across the main commercial strip, starving local business of
vital traffic from Jerusalem.

The carpentry workshop owned by Mr Abedy's family never recovered and they had
no income until a friend of Faiz's told him about SodaStream's factory next to
Ma'ale Adumim.

His father, Omar, was horrified at the prospect of his son working for a company
based in the settlement whose expansion threatens not Just their town's survival
but also hopes of a Palestinian state. "If there was any alternative, I would
never have allowed him to work there," he said.

Faiz says his Job is the best he could hope to get but he has few illusions
about SodaStream's motives. Industries that locate in the West Bank benefit from
similar economic incentives and generous tax breaks as individual settlers
themselves, so doing so makes financial sense.

Daniel Birnbaum, SodaStream's CEO, said the company "reJects the notion that our
facility is a barrier to peace in the Middle East".

A company statement said: "We will not be party to condemning our employees and
their families to unemployment and poverty, which the EU is effectively doing."

Hamas would accept any settlement reached by Palestinian negotiators with the
Israelis provided it was endorsed by a referendum of all the Palestinian people,
Jimmy Carter, the former US President said yesterday.

The Nobel peace laureate, 88, revealed in London that he had been talking
directly with Hamas leaders for several years. Washington has refused all
diplomatic contact.

"My experience is that Hamas would accept any peace deal if it was put to a
referendum," he said. In both Israel and the Palestinian territories there was
greater support for a deal than among their "big-shot bosses".

East Jerusalem One mile Old City 1967 border JERUSALEM Eizariya WEST BANK Ma'ale
Adumim Mishor Adumim Security barrier

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 2013



CORRECTION: The name of the employee of the SodaStream factory at Ma'ale Adumim,
in the West Bank, who was interviewed by our reporter, was changed in our report
("Fizzy drinks SodaStream giant caught in EU rules on Israeli settlements",
News, July 25) at the request of the employee and his family. We apologise for
omitting to make this clear.

GRAPHIC: Fais Abedy outside his home in the Palestinian village of Bethany,
looking down on Ma''ale Adumin and Mishor Adumin
CATHERINE PHILP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 20, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Sam Cam sparkled, but Ed was cruising for a bruising;
As Westminster breaks up for the school holidays, Ann Treneman files her
end-of-term report

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 786 words


School's out for summer at Westminster but not before the annual Fun and Games
Sports Day which, as usual, I attended. I am afraid that I must report that,
after last year's Olympian effort in which everyone gave themselves a gold
medal, just because they could, there has been some serious slacking. Some MPs
excused their absence from Fun and Games by saying that it was "too hot" or "too
sunny". A few didn't show up because it was "the start of the recess", which is
viewed here as having almost religious significance. Here, then, is my report:
Nick Clegg, the five-year two-man relay, no show: Mr Clegg left his coalition
partner David Cameron in the lurch, something that may become a habit as the
election gets ever nearer.

What was his excuse this time? As the Deputy Prime Minister told listeners to
Call Clegg this week, he felt it had become simply too hot to wear shoes.
"Obviously in public events where I have to respect the dignity of the office, I
put my shoes back on," he said. I quite like that "obviously". I can tell you
there is no dignity to be had at Fun and Games but, even in absentia, the
Cleggster has won an honourable mention in the facial gymnastics event for his
expertise in "looking sad".

Samantha "Sam Cam" Cameron, personal training, hand-to-hand combat (Syria a
speciality), Gold: It is a source of amazement that Sam Cam is not only the
winner in this category but that she has done it wearing six-inch-high
Louboutins. (Take note, Nick "Barefoot" Clegg, this is how it's done.) Sam, who
is not named after a missile, though you'd be forgiven for assuming that, has
been superbly successful in coaching husband Dave on such diverse topics as
arming Syria and gay marriage.

Ed Miliband and Len McCluskey, boxing, bout abandoned: I don't know which sadist
organised this "cruising for a bruising" event, but it was quite clear what was
going to happen when Ed Miligeek (if only Fun and Games had a category for
geekiness) was pitted against the Unite heavyweight. Ed was on the ropes from
the start and the bout was stopped only when Ed was lying on the ground with Len
jumping up and down on him. Incredibly, Ed is picking another fight with Len in
the autumn.

David Cameron, wild swimming, Gold: The Prime Minister has admitted to having
something quite close to an obsession with swimming in lakes. At the G8 in
Northern Ireland, where neckties were banned to highlight the "chillax" theme,
Dave took the dress-down code one step further, stripping off for an
early-morning dip in the freezing Lough Erne. His main competitor, Vlad "the
Bad" Putin, he of the six-pack chest, was left waving.

Theresa May, the "Deport Abu Qatada" marathon, Gold: This decade-long event has
involved various Home Secretaries running around in circles, trying to deport
Abu Qatada, the Jordanian radical cleric wanted for trial in his home country.
Ms May, wearing her special leopardskin kitten heels, has been running after him
since 2010, repeatedly to Strasbourg to fight the Euro court, then to Amman.
It's cost a mere £1.7 million. What a marathon!

George Osborne, jogging round the park, Gold: George, also known by President
Obama as Jeffrey, wins this event, sponsored by Byron posh-burgers. It involves
jogging round the park in appalling shorts, frightening voters, while wearing a
special wristband to monitor how many times you sneer. George, always
sneer-tastic, is a natural in this event.

Nigel Farage, cricket and warm beer, Gold: The Europhobe with the French name
and the German wife and the career as a Euro MEP has played a blinder against
all those wishy-washy Tories who may never hold a referendum. Nigel says it's
not that he dislikes Dave: "He's a perfectly nice chap to talk to, who stands
foursquare behind nothing in particular." But he thinks Dave is very pro-EU. And
that, of course, is just not cricket.

Maria Miller, all-women prize-fighter, going for Beige (specially minted just
for her): The ultra-bland Culture Secretary has been preoccupied for some time
with the age-old question: How do you Solve a Problem like Maria? Her desire to
become interesting means she is now firing off letters to the BBC about John
Inverdale's not-so-pretty comments about tennis players. Maria is also
boycotting the Open golf championship at all-male Muirfield, where BBC coverage,
in a moment of synchronicity, is being fronted by John Inverdale.

The starting gun, the election, Distinction: I am giving a medal to the starting
gun (BANG!) because, as the election approaches (it's only 21 months away), the
starting gun for it will be fired more or less constantly. Time to invest in
earplugs.

Theresa May wins the gold medal for running round in circles trying to deport
Abu Qatada ""

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations by Jake Abrams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 20, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sam Cam sparkled, but Ed was cruising for a bruising;
As Westminster breaks up for the school holidays, Ann Treneman files her
end-of-term report

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 786 words


School's out for summer at Westminster but not before the annual Fun and Games
Sports Day which, as usual, I attended. I am afraid that I must report that,
after last year's Olympian effort in which everyone gave themselves a gold
medal, Just because they could, there has been some serious slacking. Some MPs
excused their absence from Fun and Games by saying that it was "too hot" or "too
sunny". A few didn't show up because it was "the start of the recess", which is
viewed here as having almost religious significance. Here, then, is my report:
Nick Clegg, the five-year two-man relay, no show: Mr Clegg left his coalition
partner David Cameron in the lurch, something that may become a habit as the
election gets ever nearer.

What was his excuse this time? As the Deputy Prime Minister told listeners to
Call Clegg this week, he felt it had become simply too hot to wear shoes.
"Obviously in public events where I have to respect the dignity of the office, I
put my shoes back on," he said. I quite like that "obviously". I can tell you
there is no dignity to be had at Fun and Games but, even in absentia, the
Cleggster has won an honourable mention in the facial gymnastics event for his
expertise in "looking sad".

Samantha "Sam Cam" Cameron, personal training, hand-to-hand combat (Syria a
speciality), Gold: It is a source of amazement that Sam Cam is not only the
winner in this category but that she has done it wearing six-inch-high
Louboutins. (Take note, Nick "Barefoot" Clegg, this is how it's done.) Sam, who
is not named after a missile, though you'd be forgiven for assuming that, has
been superbly successful in coaching husband Dave on such diverse topics as
arming Syria and gay marriage.

Ed Miliband and Len McCluskey, boxing, bout abandoned: I don't know which sadist
organised this "cruising for a bruising" event, but it was quite clear what was
going to happen when Ed Miligeek (if only Fun and Games had a category for
geekiness) was pitted against the Unite heavyweight. Ed was on the ropes from
the start and the bout was stopped only when Ed was lying on the ground with Len
Jumping up and down on him. Incredibly, Ed is picking another fight with Len in
the autumn.

David Cameron, wild swimming, Gold: The Prime Minister has admitted to having
something quite close to an obsession with swimming in lakes. At the G8 in
Northern Ireland, where neckties were banned to highlight the "chillax" theme,
Dave took the dress-down code one step further, stripping off for an
early-morning dip in the freezing Lough Erne. His main competitor, Vlad "the
Bad" Putin, he of the six-pack chest, was left waving.

Theresa May, the "Deport Abu Qatada" marathon, Gold: This decade-long event has
involved various Home Secretaries running around in circles, trying to deport
Abu Qatada, the Jordanian radical cleric wanted for trial in his home country.
Ms May, wearing her special leopardskin kitten heels, has been running after him
since 2010, repeatedly to Strasbourg to fight the Euro court, then to Amman.
It's cost a mere £1.7 million. What a marathon!

George Osborne, Jogging round the park, Gold: George, also known by President
Obama as Jeffrey, wins this event, sponsored by Byron posh-burgers. It involves
Jogging round the park in appalling shorts, frightening voters, while wearing a
special wristband to monitor how many times you sneer. George, always
sneer-tastic, is a natural in this event.

Nigel Farage, cricket and warm beer, Gold: The Europhobe with the French name
and the German wife and the career as a Euro MEP has played a blinder against
all those wishy-washy Tories who may never hold a referendum. Nigel says it's
not that he dislikes Dave: "He's a perfectly nice chap to talk to, who stands
foursquare behind nothing in particular." But he thinks Dave is very pro-EU. And
that, of course, is Just not cricket.

Maria Miller, all-women prize-fighter, going for Beige (specially minted Just
for her): The ultra-bland Culture Secretary has been preoccupied for some time
with the age-old question: How do you Solve a Problem like Maria? Her desire to
become interesting means she is now firing off letters to the BBC about John
Inverdale's not-so-pretty comments about tennis players. Maria is also
boycotting the Open golf championship at all-male Muirfield, where BBC coverage,
in a moment of synchronicity, is being fronted by John Inverdale.

The starting gun, the election, Distinction: I am giving a medal to the starting
gun (BANG!) because, as the election approaches (it's only 21 months away), the
starting gun for it will be fired more or less constantly. Time to invest in
earplugs.

Theresa May wins the gold medal for running round in circles trying to deport
Abu Qatada ""

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations by Jake Abrams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Pro-EU group seeks reform

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 203 words


The EU needs to cut costs, abandon its vision of "ever-closer union" and allow
MPs far greater powers to monitor its activities, a cross-party group
campaigning to keep Britain's membership will acknowledge today.

The British Influence group, chaired by Ken Clarke, Lord Mandelson and Danny
Alexander, will make the economic case for the EU, arguing that UK industry
would be unable to compete in the global market place outside the EU when it
launches a manifesto.

However, the document will concede the need for major reform. It will admit that
voters want to see efficiencies and less waste and fraud, and that EU leaders
have to accept that "the time of an 'ever closer union' in every possible policy
area lies in the past".

David Cameron wants to carry out a so-called "balance of competences" review and
the consequent return of some powers from Brussels to Westminster.

He has promised a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU if he wins the
next election and that he will campaign in favour of membership if his
conditions are met.

However Mr Clarke, who remains in the Cabinet, will say today that the review
should be used to drive change for all EU members and not just to secure "a
special deal for Britain".

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 15, 2013 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

A Register of Lobbyists

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 667 words


The process by which policy decisions are made should be transparent. Opening it
up would reveal the truth, which is that most lobbying is not successful This
Parliament has been dominated by political promises. The Deputy Prime Minister
suffered a blow from which he has yet to recover when he broke his promise not
to increase tuition fees. It was very much harder to reach a conclusion to the
spending review because, under pressure from Gordon Brown in a televised debate,
David Cameron committed his party to protecting benefits for the elderly. The
backbenchers of the Conservative Party have spent much of their time in office
demanding, and finally getting, a promise from their Prime Minister to hold a
referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union.

One of the promises that the Prime Minister will redeem this week is the pledge
to introduce a register of lobbyists. At the time of the furore over MPs'
expenses, Mr Cameron was moved to say that lobbying was the next big scandal
waiting to happen. In an era in which previously private transactions are
finding their way into the public realm, it is surely only a matter of time
before the hidden process by which influence is wielded becomes a matter of
public record.

Whether such a moment has arrived with the twin revelations that the Government
is changing its position on tobacco packaging and that Lynton Crosby, the Prime
Minister's adviser, runs a consultancy called CTF whose clients include the
tobacco firm Philip Morris Ltd, is not clear. The Government insists that it is
waiting for evidence to arrive from Australia, which is the only country to have
legislated to make tobacco companies sell cigarettes in plain packaging. It is
perfectly feasible that plain packaging might increase counterfeit cigarettes,
which would increase high-tar smoking. However, it is important to clarify that
the decision had nothing to do with Mr Crosby's links to the industry.

This is especially important as it is known that Philip Morris Ltd did both
sponsor a campaign by small shopkeepers objecting to the scheme and also lobby
officials from the Department of Health. There is nothing intrinsically wrong
with lobbying of this kind. Indeed, it is a critical component in a democracy
that interest groups of all kinds should have access to government and its
representatives, so that their case can be heard. Public administration would be
the poorer if those who were affected by the decisions made by ministers were
unable to discuss them. The State still spends almost half of all national
income. The regulations that emanate from Whitehall have a significant bearing
on the health of British firms and, by extension, on the prosperity of the
nation.

It also makes sense that an industry should have arisen to facilitate this
conversation. Lobbyists watch, on behalf of their clients, for any threats that
might emerge from changes to the law in London and Brussels. The decision to
hire a reputable lobbyist is no more a scandal than the decision to hire a
lawyer or an accountant. The important point is that the relationships should be
clear and the conversations transparent. The US Lobbying Disclosure Act does not
prevent some distasteful lobbying but it does mean that all payments are
conducted in broad daylight.

Transparency about lobbying might, in fact, unearth a surprising truth. This
industry of 61,000 employees and a turnover of £7.5 billion is usually incapable
of achieving the influence that its practitioners claim. There is very little
evidence that British public policy is regularly changed in secret meetings
between ministers and lobbyists.

It makes sense, therefore, as much to eradicate the impression of wrongdoing as
the reality, to make the process of lobbying more open and transparent. If a
statutory register of lobbyists helps to achieve that objective then it is to be
welcomed.

Mistrust about lobbying has now reached 10 Downing Street and the Prime Minister
would be wise to keep his promise.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 2013



CORRECTION:

The Public Relations Consultants Association has asked us to clarify that the
figure of 61,000 employees and a turnover of £7.5 billion ("A register of
lobbyists", July 15) represents the entire PR industry and not Just lobbying,
which is worth approximately 20 per cent of that.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 15, 2013 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A Register of Lobbyists;
The process by which policy decisions are made should be transparent. Opening it
up would reveal the truth, which is that most lobbying is not successful

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 641 words


This Parliament has been dominated by political promises. The Deputy Prime
Minister suffered a blow from which he has yet to recover when he broke his
promise not to increase tuition fees. It was very much harder to reach a
conclusion to the spending review because, under pressure from Gordon Brown in a
televised debate, David Cameron committed his party to protecting benefits for
the elderly. The backbenchers of the Conservative Party have spent much of their
time in office demanding, and finally getting, a promise from their Prime
Minister to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union.

One of the promises that the Prime Minister will redeem this week is the pledge
to introduce a register of lobbyists. At the time of the furore over MPs'
expenses, Mr Cameron was moved to say that lobbying was the next big scandal
waiting to happen. In an era in which previously private transactions are
finding their way into the public realm, it is surely only a matter of time
before the hidden process by which influence is wielded becomes a matter of
public record.

Whether such a moment has arrived with the twin revelations that the Government
is changing its position on tobacco packaging and that Lynton Crosby, the Prime
Minister's adviser, runs a consultancy called CTF whose clients include the
tobacco firm Philip Morris Ltd, is not clear. The Government insists that it is
waiting for evidence to arrive from Australia, which is the only country to have
legislated to make tobacco companies sell cigarettes in plain packaging. It is
perfectly feasible that plain packaging might increase counterfeit cigarettes,
which would increase high-tar smoking. However, it is important to clarify that
the decision had nothing to do with Mr Crosby's links to the industry.

This is especially important as it is known that Philip Morris Ltd did both
sponsor a campaign by small shopkeepers obJecting to the scheme and also lobby
officials from the Department of Health. There is nothing intrinsically wrong
with lobbying of this kind. Indeed, it is a critical component in a democracy
that interest groups of all kinds should have access to government and its
representatives, so that their case can be heard. Public administration would be
the poorer if those who were affected by the decisions made by ministers were
unable to discuss them. The State still spends almost half of all national
income. The regulations that emanate from Whitehall have a significant bearing
on the health of British firms and, by extension, on the prosperity of the
nation.

It also makes sense that an industry should have arisen to facilitate this
conversation. Lobbyists watch, on behalf of their clients, for any threats that
might emerge from changes to the law in London and Brussels. The decision to
hire a reputable lobbyist is no more a scandal than the decision to hire a
lawyer or an accountant. The important point is that the relationships should be
clear and the conversations transparent. The US Lobbying Disclosure Act does not
prevent some distasteful lobbying but it does mean that all payments are
conducted in broad daylight.

Transparency about lobbying might, in fact, unearth a surprising truth. This
industry of 61,000 employees and a turnover of £7.5 billion is usually incapable
of achieving the influence that its practitioners claim. There is very little
evidence that British public policy is regularly changed in secret meetings
between ministers and lobbyists.

It makes sense, therefore, as much to eradicate the impression of wrongdoing as
the reality, to make the process of lobbying more open and transparent. If a
statutory register of lobbyists helps to achieve that obJective then it is to be
welcomed. Mistrust about lobbying has now reached 10 Downing Street and the
Prime Minister would be wise to keep his promise.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 2013



CORRECTION:

The Public Relations Consultants Association has asked us to clarify that the
figure of 61,000 employees and a turnover of £7.5 billion ("A register of
lobbyists", July 15) represents the entire PR industry and not Just lobbying,
which is worth approximately 20 per cent of that.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pro-EU group seeks reform

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 203 words


The EU needs to cut costs, abandon its vision of "ever-closer union" and allow
MPs far greater powers to monitor its activities, a cross-party group
campaigning to keep Britain's membership will acknowledge today.

The British Influence group, chaired by Ken Clarke, Lord Mandelson and Danny
Alexander, will make the economic case for the EU, arguing that UK industry
would be unable to compete in the global market place outside the EU when it
launches a manifesto.

However, the document will concede the need for maJor reform. It will admit that
voters want to see efficiencies and less waste and fraud, and that EU leaders
have to accept that "the time of an 'ever closer union' in every possible policy
area lies in the past".

David Cameron wants to carry out a so-called "balance of competences" review and
the consequent return of some powers from Brussels to Westminster. He has
promised a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU if he wins the next
election and that he will campaign in favour of membership if his conditions are
met.

However Mr Clarke, who remains in the Cabinet, will say today that the review
should be used to drive change for all EU members and not Just to secure "a
special deal for Britain".

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Pro-EU group seeks reform

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 203 words


The EU needs to cut costs, abandon its vision of "ever-closer union" and allow
MPs far greater powers to monitor its activities, a cross-party group
campaigning to keep Britain's membership will acknowledge today.

The British Influence group, chaired by Ken Clarke, Lord Mandelson and Danny
Alexander, will make the economic case for the EU, arguing that UK industry
would be unable to compete in the global marketplace outside the EU when it
launches a manifesto.

However, the document will concede the need for maJor reform. It will admit that
voters want to see efficiencies and less waste and fraud, and that EU leaders
have to accept that "the time of an 'ever-closer union' in every possible policy
area lies in the past".

David Cameron wants to carry out a so-called "balance of competences" review and
the consequent return of some powers from Brussels to Westminster.

He has promised a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU if he wins the
next election and that he will campaign in favour of membership if his
conditions are met.

However Mr Clarke, who remains in the Cabinet, will say today that the review
should be used to drive change for all EU members and not Just to secure "a
special deal for Britain".

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Britain can't pick and mix the rules, says Barnier

BYLINE: Sam Fleming

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 322 words


Europe's Internal Markets Commissioner has warned British politicians that
arguments for a "pick and mix" approach to financial services regulation would
fail.

Michel Barnier rebuffed suggestions among eurosceptics that powers over
financial services might be repatriated as part of a renegotiation of Britain's
relationship with the rest of the European Union before a referendum.

"By definition, there can't be two single markets, one for financial services
and one for the rest of the economy - one for the City and one for the rest of
the EU," he said during a speech in London. "Repatriating full policy
responsibility for financial services would mean leaving the single market as a
whole and de facto the EU."

His words came after the Fresh Start group of Tory MPs called for an emergency
brake on new financial services regulation.

Despite the unpopularity in the City of measures including the financial
transaction tax and bonus cap, Mr Barnier insisted that Britain still had a
strong voice at the table. He argued that it would be in Britain's interests to
have a more integrated eurozone because that would foster greater stability on
the Continent. Integral to that drive is the creation of a new banking union in
the euro area.

But Mr Barnier faces a battle with Germany over proposals for a new single
resolution mechanism presented this week, under which the European Commission
would have the power to decide when and how to shut struggling banks. Germany
has attacked the legal foundations of the plan and argues that bank wind-ups
should be overseen by a network of national authorities.

Mr Barnier defended the proposals, saying that the Commission's concept was
legally sound and amounted to the best way of ensuring rapid reform without
treaty change, which could take several years. He insisted: "We need to find
solutions now for the problems we face now. The citizens would not forgive us if
we just did nothing."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rock solid in their resolve;
The ripples over sovereignty will not go away, writes Michael Binyon

BYLINE: Michael Binyon

SECTION: GIBRALTAR;FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 631 words


It was Hitler's demands that revived the Spanish claim. The German dictator told
General Franco to give the German army free passage across the country so that
it could launch a massive land assault on Gibraltar, the impregnable fortress
from which Britain denied the Nazis entrance to the Mediterranean.

Franco demurred. He did not want to ally Spain, exhausted from civil war, with
the Axis without the reward of Morocco as a Spanish colony. But he realised then
the extraordinary military value of Gibraltar, denied to Spain since the Treaty
of Utrecht in 1713. After the war, he stepped up his campaign to force Britain
to return the Rock.

It is a dispute that has been going on for the past half century, complicating
Britain's otherwise good relations with Madrid, vexing Nato, posing problems for
the European Union and leading to dozens of diplomatic incidents and proposals
to change the status of Gibraltar, now officially a self-governing British
overseas territory.

In the Cold War, the territory was again of vital strategic value - guarding the
9-mile Strait of Gibraltar in case the Soviet Union attempted to pour ships and
troops into the Mediterranean.

In 1727 and 1779, Spain had attempted unsuccessfully to force Britain out by
siege. In 1954, Franco called for Gibraltar to be returned to Spain as a reward
for its neutrality during the war, and in the 1960s he took the issue to the
United Nations General Assembly, which passed two resolutions as part of its
policy to end colonialism across the world. The wording of each, significantly,
focused on the "interests" of the Gibraltarians rather than on their "wishes".
Spain made a formal proposal in 1966 to cancel the Treaty of Utrecht and assume
sovereignty. Britain rejected it and a year later a referendum in Gibraltar
showed overwhelming rejection - by 99.1 per cent - of any change. Many
Gibraltarians are descended from settlers from overseas. Two years later, Spain
closed the land frontier, which remained shut until 1984.

Gibraltar resolved not to depend on Spain; goods as well as workers came from
Britain and North Africa. But Gibraltar's demand for either independence or full
integration within Britain was rebuffed.

In 1985, Madrid proposed joint sovereignty, while promising to keep Gibraltar's
way of life and with a leaseback arrangement to Britain for up to 20 years.

The idea was turned down, but in 1997 Spain renewed the idea with a proposed
leaseback for as long as 100 years. This was provisionally agreed by Britain in
2002, and the Labour government committed itself to talks on implementation.

Gibraltarians remained firmly opposed, however, insisting that they must also be
represented at talks, and began a campaign for Crown dependency status:
independence in all but name. Spain ruled both out. In 2002, a second Gibraltar
referendum again led to rejection of Spanish sovereignty by 99 per cent.

Spain's tactics have varied since then, at times imposing new restrictions, at
others offering a more emollient approach. The dispute has repeatedly got in the
way of bilateral relations. Spain's king snubbed the wedding of Prince Charles
and Princess Diana because they were to visit the Rock on honeymoon; Queen
Sophia declined an invitation to Buckingham Palace to celebrate the Queen's
diamond jubilee in 2012. Britain has also had to use considerable pressure to
stop Gibraltar setting itself up as a tax haven or to benefit from local
smuggling.

The latest incident over fishing is one of many that has flared up in Gibraltar
waters over the years due to rows over who controls the sea around the Rock.

Quietly and gradually, however, Spain has relaxed some restrictions in an
attempt to show Gibraltar a more friendly face. But for the moment there is
little immediate prospect of any change.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flag-waving Gibraltarians take to the streets in 2002 in protest at a
threat to sovereignty
HUGO PHILPOTT / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain can't pick and mix the rules, says Barnier

BYLINE: Sam Fleming

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 322 words


Europe's Internal Markets Commissioner has warned British politicians that
arguments for a "pick and mix" approach to financial services regulation would
fail.

Michel Barnier rebuffed suggestions among eurosceptics that powers over
financial services might be repatriated as part of a renegotiation of Britain's
relationship with the rest of the European Union before a referendum.

"By definition, there can't be two single markets, one for financial services
and one for the rest of the economy - one for the City and one for the rest of
the EU," he said during a speech in London. "Repatriating full policy
responsibility for financial services would mean leaving the single market as a
whole and de facto the EU."

His words came after the Fresh Start group of Tory MPs called for an emergency
brake on new financial services regulation.

Despite the unpopularity in the City of measures including the financial
transaction tax and bonus cap, Mr Barnier insisted that Britain still had a
strong voice at the table. He argued that it would be in Britain's interests to
have a more integrated eurozone because that would foster greater stability on
the Continent. Integral to that drive is the creation of a new banking union in
the euro area.

But Mr Barnier faces a battle with Germany over proposals for a new single
resolution mechanism presented this week, under which the European Commission
would have the power to decide when and how to shut struggling banks. Germany
has attacked the legal foundations of the plan and argues that bank wind-ups
should be overseen by a network of national authorities.

Mr Barnier defended the proposals, saying that the Commission's concept was
legally sound and amounted to the best way of ensuring rapid reform without
treaty change, which could take several years. He insisted: "We need to find
solutions now for the problems we face now. The citizens would not forgive us if
we Just did nothing."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Rare sighting of a Dodo-like creature: Tory Unitedous

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 508 words


It was like a dream. Actually, it may have been one. Yesterday, at 9.33am, I
entered the Commons and found Tory MPs, packed into their benches like sardines
in suits, to be totally united. I stared. This was something truly rare, like
seeing the dodo for the first time since the 17th century.

I knew that I needed help to identify this strange creature. So I rang the
expert. Sir David Attenborough, a man used to seeing strange phenomena, raced
over to Westminster to help.

"Ahhhhhh," he whispered to me, words sussurating as we were peering through the
fronds of a plant he brought along to make us feel out in the wild. "This is the
rarest of species. Indeed, many live their whole lives without seeing Tory
Unitedous."

We readjusted our binoculars as a cheer filled the Chamber, both tribal and
powerful. Tory Unitedous was welcoming a fledgeling to its ranks, the young
James Wharton, the 29-year-old who, by sheer chance, had won the mysterious
oddity that is the Private Member's Bill ballot and thus was given the honour of
presenting a Bill promising an EU referendum in 2017.

"It is an honour to introduce a Bill that has at its heart the heart of our
democracy," began James, tall and unmistakenly of the Tory tribe, his black hair
slicked back. "Power should reside with the people. In introducing the Bill, I
speak for many in the House, but I speak for millions more outside."

Sir David nudged me as Nadhim Zahawi rolled to his feet. Mr Zahawi is so loyal
that once he almost won my coveted Lickspittle of the Year competition.

"Often, with Tory Unitedous, the limelight is irresistible," whispered Sir
David.

Lusty cheers resounded for Mr Zahawi, who looked almost entirely happy. He asked
Young James: "Have you received representations from the leader of the Labour
Party, Len McCluskey, on what he thinks the position should be on this important
issue?" Oh my! How Tory Unitedous shrieked with laughter! For, of course, Len is
not leader of the Labour Party but of its financial backer, the Unite union.
James said that he hadn't heard from Len or, indeed, Ed Miliband, and returned
to his theme, noting that the last referendum on Europe was in 1975. This, by
the way, was before Young James was born: "How things have changed: politics has
moved on, and the EU has moved on."

A new roar filled the room as Dennis Skinner, the Labour dinosaur, stood up. Sir
David looked almost in awe as he peered down at the legendary Beast of Bolsover.

"I voted for a referendum in 1975," rasped the Beast. "Sadly, the country did
not follow my advice, or we would not be doing what we are doing today. However,
the Bill is deficient in one respect: it does not ask for a referendum until
2017. What we need is a referendum before the next election!"

Young James rocked back and forth. "I wish more people had listened to you in
1975," he said, to immense Tory merriment. The vote, in the end, was 304 to
zero. As we watched the MPs voting, still amazed, Sir David whispered to me:
"This was the day that Tory Unitedous roared." We may not see it again.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rare sighting of a Dodo-like creature: Tory Unitedous

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 507 words


It was like a dream. Actually, it may have been one. Yesterday, at 9.33am, I
entered the Commons and found Tory MPs, packed into their benches like sardines
in suits, to be totally united. I stared. This was something truly rare, like
seeing the dodo for the first time since the 17th century.

I knew that I needed help to identify this strange creature. So I rang the
expert. Sir David Attenborough, a man used to seeing strange phenomena, raced
over to Westminster to help.

"Ahhhhhh," he whispered to me, words sussurating as we were peering through the
fronds of a plant he brought along to make us feel out in the wild. "This is the
rarest of species. Indeed, many live their whole lives without seeing Tory
Unitedous."

We readjusted our binoculars as a cheer filled the Chamber, both tribal and
powerful. Tory Unitedous was welcoming a fledgeling to its ranks, the young
James Wharton, the 29-year-old who, by sheer chance, had won the mysterious
oddity that is the Private Member's Bill ballot and thus was given the honour of
presenting a Bill promising an EU referendum in 2017.

"It is an honour to introduce a Bill that has at its heart the heart of our
democracy," began James, tall and unmistakenly of the Tory tribe, his black hair
slicked back. "Power should reside with the people. In introducing the Bill, I
speak for many in the House, but I speak for millions more outside."

Sir David nudged me as Nadhim Zahawi rolled to his feet. Mr Zahawi is so loyal
that once he almost won my coveted Lickspittle of the Year competition.

"Often, with Tory Unitedous, the limelight is irresistible," whispered Sir
David.

Lusty cheers resounded for Mr Zahawi, who looked almost entirely happy. He asked
Young James: "Have you received representations from the leader of the Labour
Party, Len McCluskey, on what he thinks the position should be on this important
issue?"

Oh my! How Tory Unitedous shrieked with laughter! For, of course, Len is not
leader of the Labour Party but of its financial backer, the Unite union. James
said that he hadn't heard from Len or, indeed, Ed Miliband, and returned to his
theme, noting that the last referendum on Europe was in 1975. This, by the way,
was before Young James was born: "How things have changed: politics has moved
on, and the EU has moved on."

A new roar filled the room as Dennis Skinner, the Labour dinosaur, stood up. Sir
David looked almost in awe as he peered down at the legendary Beast of Bolsover.

"I voted for a referendum in 1975," rasped the Beast. "Sadly, the country did
not follow my advice, or we would not be doing what we are doing today. However,
the Bill is deficient in one respect: it does not ask for a referendum until
2017. What we need is a referendum before the next election!"

Young James rocked back and forth. "I wish more people had listened to you in
1975," he said, to immense Tory merriment.

The vote, in the end, was 304 to zero. As we watched the MPs voting, still
amazed, Sir David whispered to me: "This was the day that Tory Unitedous
roared." We may not see it again.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WESTMINSTER DIARY

BYLINE: ANN TRENEMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 480 words


A VOTE FOR MERLOT

It's the party season at Westminster and who could resist an invitation from
Tory boy of the week, James Wharton, aged 29. The idea was to give a shindig for
his totemic European Union (Referendum) Bill. No one could ever remember such a
thing happening before but, as one of Mr Wharton's friends said to me: "Any
excuse!" I was rather shocked to see that Mr Wharton, above, was serving a
French Merlot and a Portuguese white. But, I protested, Portugal is one of the
heavily indebted Piigs countries! "Don't read anything into the wine," Mr
Wharton insisted. Sheryll Murray, another Tory MP, had cranked up her badge
machine and was handing out two offerings: one said "EU Referendum - Back the
Bill" and another attacked the Lib Dems. I think we know which one sold out.

ROCKET FUEL

Then it was on to another soirée, this one given by the all-party Parliamentary
Space Committee, which is chaired by Adam Afriyie, the visionary Tory MP and
much-touted future prime minister. I have made a pledge to track Adam's career
progress and so off I went to Join about a hundred spacehoppers orbiting
Strangers' Dining Room.

"Pop!" went the champagne. I have to report that the space cadets are certainly
intent on putting the party into all-party groups. I escaped only after being
held captive by a proponent of satellite technology. "It's not rocket science,"
he told me, before adding: "Well, actually it is."

PARTY ANIMAL DAVE

Dave's such a party animal that I'm amazed he finds time to govern the country.
He ended the week slaving over a hot barbecue at No 10, flipping burgers (and
not policies for a change). The idea was to get to know his backbenchers better,
which wouldn't be hard. It certainly contrasts from how he began the week, which
was in Kazakhstan, munching caviar and sipping one or two glasses of Chivas
Regal with the super-democrat President Nazarbayev. The two chillaxed in the
"Irish Bar" at the Rixos hotel in Astana, where a pint of Guinness costs £11. No
doubt Mr Nazarbayev, who got 95 per cent of the vote, had some election advice
for Dave. It helps, of course, to have all of your challengers end up endorsing
you. Somehow I'm not sure Nick Clegg and Ed Miliband will follow suit.

THE WRATH OF BERCOW

John Bercow, the Speaker, adores tennis and may be cross that he has not been
spending more time at Wimbledon. Certainly he has been in a foul mood of late.
Last week Mr Bercow savaged Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, for "totally
mishandling" a statement. (The actual words were "woefully inadequate and
frankly utterly incompetent".) A day later he let rip at Simon Burns, the
Transport Minister. "You are a slow learner. You are a late developer but you've
got to try and grasp the point." But then Mr Burns did once call the Speaker a
"sanctimonious dwarf". Is it time for Mr Bercow to do a little chillaxing?
Centre court, anyone?

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "I take it you're one of the suits"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Rare sighting of a dodo-like creature: Tory Unitedous

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 508 words


It was like a dream. Actually, it may have been one. Yesterday, at 9.33am, I
entered the Commons and found Tory MPs, packed into their benches like sardines
in suits, to be totally united. I stared. This was something truly rare, like
seeing the dodo for the first time since the 17th century.

I knew that I needed help to identify this strange creature. So I rang the
expert. Sir David Attenborough, a man used to seeing strange phenomena, raced
over to Westminster to help.

"Ahhhhhh," he whispered to me, words sussurating as we were peering through the
fronds of a plant he brought along to make us feel out in the wild. "This is the
rarest of species. Indeed, many live their whole lives without seeing Tory
Unitedous."

We READJUSTED our binoculars as a cheer filled the Chamber, both tribal and
powerful. Tory Unitedous was welcoming a fledgeling to its ranks, the young
James Wharton, the 29-year-old who, by sheer chance, had won the mysterious
oddity that is the Private Member's Bill ballot and thus was given the honour of
presenting a Bill promising an EU referendum in 2017.

"It is an honour to introduce a Bill that has at its heart the heart of our
democracy," began James, tall and unmistakenly of the Tory tribe, his black hair
slicked back. "Power should reside with the people. In introducing the Bill, I
speak for many in the House, but I speak for millions more outside."

Sir David nudged me as Nadhim Zahawi rolled to his feet. Mr Zahawi is so loyal
that once he almost won my coveted Lickspittle of the Year competition.

"Often, with Tory Unitedous, the limelight is irresistible," whispered Sir
David.

Lusty cheers resounded for Mr Zahawi, who looked almost entirely happy. He asked
Young James: "Have you received representations from the leader of the Labour
Party, Len McCluskey, on what he thinks the position should be on this important
issue?" Oh my! How Tory Unitedous shrieked with laughter! For, of course, Len is
not leader of the Labour Party but of its financial backer, the Unite union.
James said that he hadn't heard from Len or, indeed, Ed Miliband, and returned
to his theme, noting that the last referendum on Europe was in 1975. This, by
the way, was before Young James was born: "How things have changed: politics has
moved on, and the EU has moved on."

A new roar filled the room as Dennis Skinner, the Labour dinosaur, stood up. Sir
David looked almost in awe as he peered down at the legendary Beast of Bolsover.

"I voted for a referendum in 1975," rasped the Beast. "Sadly, the country did
not follow my advice, or we would not be doing what we are doing today. However,
the Bill is deficient in one respect: it does not ask for a referendum until
2017. What we need is a referendum before the next election!"

Young James rocked back and forth. "I wish more people had listened to you in
1975," he said, to immense Tory merriment.

The vote, in the end, was 304 to zero. As we watched the MPs voting, still
amazed, Sir David whispered to me: "This was the day that Tory Unitedous
roared." We may not see it again.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Daily Universal Register

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 77 words


Westminster: The House of Commons votes on a draft EU referendum Bill; Labour
and the Liberal Democrats are not expected to take part UK: The Stonewall
Education for All conference takes place in London, with a keynote speech by the
Education Secretary, Michael Gove; the opening day of the biannual Church of
England General Synod in York; Andy Murray plays Jerzy Janowicz in the Wimbledon
men's semi-final Vatican City: Pope Francis releases his first encyclical

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

British interests and the policies of the EU;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 518 words


Sir, The letter from the historians adding their voices to those calling for
reform in Europe (July 3) is welcome, but they make three criticisms which have
straightforward answers.

First, they say that new EU taxes "penalise" finance. It looks as though the
Financial Transactions Tax is dying, and the UK recently secured a deal that
will help protect trading activities in the EU that happen outside the eurozone.

Second, they say that the EU disregards voters. They are right that the EU needs
more democratic legitimacy, and this could be achieved by greater involvement
from national parliaments, but no one is forced to be a member.

Third, they say that the EU is wrecking lives in the Mediterranean. Even if
there are problems in the south, that is not a good reason for the UK to leave.

roland rudd Chairman, Business for New Europe Sir, Setting the date for a
referendum on the EU has opened up the debate on Europe to rational argument
from both sides. The country's best interests are now more likely to emerge.

One thing which continues to mislead the public is the view that most burdensome
regulation comes from Brussels.That is not true. Most of our unique regulatory
overkill is made in Whitehall. Only in the UK are the European directives,
designed to give latitude to each nation to interpret according to its
particular culture, narrowed down by Whitehall into highly restrictive
parameters that throttle us alone.

Where else is health and safety so preposterously burdensome, or small abattoirs
and cheesemakers forced to close by regulatory costs? One of the worst areas has
been flood defence. Here the restrictive interpretation of the European habitats
directive has obstructed and delayed, as well as raised the costs of any work
required.

The fastest-growing employment class in the UK in the past decade has not been
welders or mechanics but "environmental officers", up from 11,000 to more than
26,000 - that is more than 1,000 per county.

r. b. skepper Woodbridge, Suffolk Sir, We expect objective analysis from
professional historians, not unsubstantiated assertions. The group whose letter
you published state as a fact, for instance, that it is EU economic policies
that have wrecked lives in the Mediterranean countries. The most cursory
examination of the facts would show that the major cause of the disasters was
the economic and fiscal policies pursued by the governments of those countries.

peter pooley Alresford, Hants Sir, John Cridland (Opinion, July 4) is trying to
frighten people with dark warnings for when Britain finally leaves the EU.

Claims that Norwegian authorities sit around the fax machine impotent, waiting
for their latest instruction from Brussels, are risible: 90 per cent of Single
Market rules are covered by UN and other international bodies. Norway acts in
its own interest on those bodies, which is more than can be said for the UK
where our place is taken by the EU. In reality Norway has more influence on EU
rules, from outside, than we do from within. It has access to the market but
sets its own rules.

nigel farage, mep Leader of UKIP Westerham, Kent

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Norfolk coast: is flood defence construction delayed by EU habitat
directives?
PHIL NOBLE / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

British interests and the EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


Sir, Setting the date for a referendum on the EU has opened up the debate on
Europe to rational argument from both sides. The best interests of the country
are now more likely to emerge. One thing which continues to mislead the public
is the view that most burdensome regulation comes from Brussels. That is not
true. Most of our unique regulatory overkill is made in Whitehall.

R. B. Skepper, Woodbridge, Suffolk

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

British interests and the policies of the EU;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 517 words


Sir, The letter from the historians adding their voices to those calling for
reform in Europe (July 3) is welcome, but they make three criticisms which have
straightforward answers.

First, they say that new EU taxes "penalise" finance. It looks as though the
Financial Transactions Tax is dying, and the UK recently secured a deal that
will help protect trading activities in the EU that happen outside the eurozone.

Second, they say that the EU disregards voters. They are right that the EU needs
more democratic legitimacy, and this could be achieved by greater involvement
from national parliaments, but no one is forced to be a member.

Third, they say that the EU is wrecking lives in the Mediterranean. Even if
there are problems in the south, that is not a good reason for the UK to leave.

ROLAND RUDD

Chairman, Business for New Europe

Sir, Setting the date for a referendum on the EU has opened up the debate on
Europe to rational argument from both sides. The country's best interests are
now more likely to emerge.

One thing which continues to mislead the public is the view that most burdensome
regulation comes from Brussels.That is not true. Most of our unique regulatory
overkill is made in Whitehall. Only in the UK are the European directives,
designed to give latitude to each nation to interpret according to its
particular culture, narrowed down by Whitehall into highly restrictive
parameters that throttle us alone.

Where else is health and safety so preposterously burdensome, or small abattoirs
and cheesemakers forced to close by regulatory costs? One of the worst areas has
been flood defence. Here the restrictive interpretation of the European habitats
directive has obstructed and delayed, as well as raised the costs of any work
required.

The fastest-growing employment class in the UK in the past decade has not been
welders or mechanics but "environmental officers", up from 11,000 to more than
26,000 - that is more than 1,000 per county.

R. B. SKEPPER

Woodbridge, Suffolk

Sir, We expect objective analysis from professional historians, not
unsubstantiated assertions. The group whose letter you published state as a
fact, for instance, that it is EU economic policies that have wrecked lives in
the Mediterranean countries. The most cursory examination of the facts would
show that the MAJOR cause of the disasters was the economic and fiscal policies
pursued by the governments of those countries.

PETER POOLEY

Alresford, Hants

Sir, John Cridland (Opinion, July 4) is trying to frighten people with dark
warnings for when Britain finally leaves the EU.

Claims that Norwegian authorities sit around the fax machine impotent, waiting
for their latest instruction from Brussels, are risible: 90 per cent of Single
Market rules are covered by UN and other international bodies. Norway acts in
its own interest on those bodies, which is more than can be said for the UK
where our place is taken by the EU. In reality Norway has more influence on EU
rules, from outside, than we do from within. It has access to the market but
sets its own rules.

NIGEL FARAGE, MEP

Leader of UKIP Westerham, Kent

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Norfolk coast: is flood defence construction delayed by EU habitat
directives?
PHIL NOBLE / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Daily Universal Register

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 77 words


Westminster: The House of Commons votes on a draft EU referendum Bill; Labour
and the Liberal Democrats are not expected to take part UK: The Stonewall
Education for All conference takes place in London, with a keynote speech by the
Education Secretary, Michael Gove; the opening day of the biannual Church of
England General Synod in York; Andy Murray plays Jerzy Janowicz in the Wimbledon
men's semi-final Vatican City: Pope Francis releases his first encyclical

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 4, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UK would face huge bill to opt out of EU;
Eurosceptics dismiss 'pessimistic' review

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words


Britain would face a huge bill from the EU and may still have to obey many of
its rules should voters opt to leave Europe, an independent analysis has warned.

In an assessment that will worry MPs hoping to take the UK out of the EU, a
review by House of Commons officials concluded that Britain would "almost
certainly" have to settle its "financial account" with Europe.

The review also concluded that despite EU legislation being one of the main
bugbears for voters opposed to Europe, "in practice the UK is likely to keep
many EU rules".

Tory Eurosceptics argued that the review painted an unnecessarily pessimistic
view of the practicalities of leaving the EU.

The UK's contribution to Europe was £10 billion last year, or 1.5 per cent of
total public spending.

The report, published by Commons library officials, confirms that a decision by
voters to exit Europe would not need to be endorsed by other EU states. However,
it warns that Britain could face a big EU bill after leaving as a result of
projects already in the pipeline that rely in part on British money.

If all funding was stopped it would cause "enormous disruption", although the
final bill Britain could face is "difficult to predict". "Future financing of
the EU has been planned on the basis of continuing UK membership," it states.
"There would be complicated negotiations to settle the financial account between
the UK and the EU.

"It would not be possible to withdraw from, say, the Common Agricultural Policy
overnight without enormous disruption for farmers. Transitional arrangements
would have to form part of the withdrawal agreement."

The Commons paper notes that Britain would retain many EU laws, even if it left.
"For practical reasons, the UK is likely to keep significant amounts of laws of
EU origin," it states. "For instance non-EU exporters are often dependent on
sales from the EU market, for which they must meet EU regulatory conditions. And
fields such as counterfeiting, anti-terrorism and extradition need bilateral
cooperation." The warning comes on the eve of a vote on a Tory Bill designed to
enshrine an EU referendum in law. The Bill, being promoted by the Tory MP James
Wharton, would back holding the vote in 2017, as promised by David Cameron if he
wins the next election.

Douglas Carswell, the Tory MP for Clacton, said he was sure that the "Whitehall
elite" and Europhile lawyers would attempt to ensure that the price of Britain
leaving the EU would be as high as possible.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 4, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK would face huge bill to opt out of EU;
Eurosceptics dismiss 'pessimistic' review

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words


Britain would face a huge bill from the EU and may still have to obey many of
its rules should voters opt to leave Europe, an independent analysis has warned.

In an assessment that will worry MPs hoping to take the UK out of the EU, a
review by House of Commons officials concluded that Britain would "almost
certainly" have to settle its "financial account" with Europe.

The review also concluded that despite EU legislation being one of the main
bugbears for voters opposed to Europe, "in practice the UK is likely to keep
many EU rules".

Tory Eurosceptics argued that the review painted an unnecessarily pessimistic
view of the practicalities of leaving the EU.

The UK's contribution to Europe was £10 billion last year, or 1.5 per cent of
total public spending.

The report, published by Commons library officials, confirms that a decision by
voters to exit Europe would not need to be endorsed by other EU states. However,
it warns that Britain could face a big EU bill after leaving as a result of
proJects already in the pipeline that rely in part on British money.

If all funding was stopped it would cause "enormous disruption", although the
final bill Britain could face is "difficult to predict". "Future financing of
the EU has been planned on the basis of continuing UK membership," it states.
"There would be complicated negotiations to settle the financial account between
the UK and the EU.

"It would not be possible to withdraw from, say, the Common Agricultural Policy
overnight without enormous disruption for farmers. Transitional arrangements
would have to form part of the withdrawal agreement."

The Commons paper notes that Britain would retain many EU laws, even if it left.
"For practical reasons, the UK is likely to keep significant amounts of laws of
EU origin," it states. "For instance non-EU exporters are often dependent on
sales from the EU market, for which they must meet EU regulatory conditions. And
fields such as counterfeiting, anti-terrorism and extradition need bilateral
cooperation." The warning comes on the eve of a vote on a Tory Bill designed to
enshrine an EU referendum in law. The Bill, being promoted by the Tory MP James
Wharton, would back holding the vote in 2017, as promised by David Cameron if he
wins the next election.

Douglas Carswell, the Tory MP for Clacton, said he was sure that the "Whitehall
elite" and Europhile lawyers would attempt to ensure that the price of Britain
leaving the EU would be as high as possible.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 4, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

UK 'would face huge bill to opt out of EU';
Eurosceptics dismiss 'pessimistic' review

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 413 words


Britain would face a huge bill from the European Union and may still have to
obey many of its rules should voters opt to leave Europe, an independent
analysis has warned.

In an assessment that will worry MPs hoping to take the UK out of the EU, a
review by House of Commons officials concluded that Britain would "almost
certainly" have to settle its "financial account" with Europe.

The review also concluded that despite EU legislation being one of the main
bugbears for voters opposed to Europe, "in practice the UK is likely to keep
many EU rules".

Tory Eurosceptics argued that the review painted an unnecessarily pessimistic
view of the practicalities of leaving the EU.

The UK's contribution to Europe was £10 billion last year, or 1.5 per cent of
total public spending.

The report, published by Commons library officials, confirms that a decision by
voters to exit Europe would not need to be endorsed by other EU states. However,
it warns that Britain could face a big bill after leaving as a result of
proJects already in the pipeline that rely in part on British money.

If all funding was stopped it would cause "enormous disruption", although the
final bill Britain could face is "difficult to predict". "Future financing of
the EU has been planned on the basis of continuing UK membership," it states.
"There would be complicated negotiations to settle the financial account between
the UK and the EU.

"It would not be possible to withdraw from, say, the Common Agricultural Policy
overnight without enormous disruption for farmers. Transitional arrangements
would have to form part of the withdrawal agreement."

The Commons paper notes that Britain would retain many EU laws, even if it left.
"For practical reasons, the UK is likely to keep significant amounts of laws of
EU origin," it states. "For instance non-EU exporters are often dependent on
sales from the EU market, for which they must meet EU regulatory conditions. And
fields such as counterfeiting, anti-terrorism and extradition need bilateral
cooperation." The warning comes on the eve of a vote on a Tory Bill designed to
enshrine an EU referendum in law. The Bill, being promoted by the Tory MP James
Wharton, would back holding the vote in 2017, as promised by David Cameron if he
wins the next election.

Douglas Carswell, the Tory MP for Clacton, said he was sure that the "Whitehall
elite" and Europhile lawyers would attempt to ensure that the price of Britain
leaving the EU would be as high as possible.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'We need a new deal on Europe or we quit';
Historians say EU is wrecking lives

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 423 words


The European Union is undermining Britain's legal traditions and eroding
parliamentary sovereignty, a group of leading historians claims.

In a letter to The Times published today, 22 academics urge David Cameron to
make one more attempt to negotiate a looser relationship with Europe "before
thinking about leaving".

The EU is "wrecking lives" and fanning extremism, they say, and the Government
must act to protect British values. "New taxes which penalise Britain's historic
financial and mercantile trade, the disregard for the decisions of voters and
refusal to allow the people of Europe a greater say over their governance are
antagonistic to British values. The brutal reality of 'European Union' is
manifesting itself in the Mediterranean where EU economic policies have wrecked
lives and now fan the flames of aggressive extremism."

The letter has been signed by 22 figures, including Professor David Abulafia, of
the University of Cambridge, Professor Jeremy Black, of the University of
Exeter, and Andrew Roberts, the TV historian. Signatories on the left include Dr
Han-Rog Kang and Dr Abigail Green, both of the University of Oxford.

The historians explicitly deny that they are acting "out of national or racial
prejudice" and make clear that leaving Europe must be a serious consideration.

The letter has been co-ordinated by Business for Britain, the campaign group
pushing for subtantial changes to Britain's relationship with Europe. It comes
three days before a symbolic Bill enshrining an EU referendum in law will be put
to a vote in the Commons.

Ed Balls, the Shadow Chancellor, appeared to shut down any chance of Labour
endorsing a referendum on the EU before the summer recess. He told The Times CEO
Summit: "I don't think the biggest priority for Britain right now is a political
row."

He said that Ed Miliband, Nick Clegg and David Cameron were united in the need
for reform of Europe and to prevent a "drift to the exit". He added: "The thing
I would like to see is to get to genuinely cross-party consensus about the
importance of Britain being a strong player outside the single currency."

However, Labour was ridiculed in the Commons yesterday over suggestions that it
would abstain in Friday's vote. The Tory MP Sir Tony Baldry warned the House:
"This is not an issue which Parliament and Members of Parliament can run away
from."

David Cameron said Labour's response made them look "feeble". Addressing Mr
Miliband, he said: "When it comes to this Bill on Friday ... surely you must
have an opinion?" Letters, page 21

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Reform on Europe will lead to a 'tectonic shift';
ceo summit Britain: Aiming for the top ; Britain's place in Europe ; It is the
red-meat issue engaging politicians and business leaders. But if there is a
consensus on the EU, it is that there is no consensus, says Damian Whitworth

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: CEO SUMMIT;FEATURES; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 901 words


You can't quite see mainland Europe from the top of the Gherkin, but on Monday
evening the view was so clear that it felt as if France must be just beyond the
distant haze where hills met the sky. Europe did, however, loom metaphorically
large on the horizon for delegates who gathered at the top of the landmark
London building for the opening of The Times CEO Summit.

Over dinner on the 40th floor of 30 St Mary Axe (to give the building its
official name) the debate was In or Out? Britain in the EU.

The location was apposite. The Gherkin has become a symbol of a financial centre
that drives a national economy, but it is regarded by some in Europe as needing
a shorter leash. Standing on the former site of the Baltic Exchange, this
tumescent tribute to financial pre-eminence was designed by British architects,
built by a Swedish construction company and is jointly owned by German and UK
companies, with a Swiss reinsurer as a big tenant.

The menu was British with a continental flavour: Cornish mackerel, Hereford beef
and Eton mess, served with French and Spanish wine.

Previous summits have looked at deficit reduction, boosting the economy and
turning British companies into world leaders. This year it was clear that Europe
is the red-meat issue engaging politicians and business leaders.

"It's an unusual business issue in that there is a genuine spectrum of views,"
John Cridland, Director-General of the Confederation of British Industry, said.
"I will not claim there is a consensus, because there isn't. I have people that
believe we would be better out than in, and I have people who believe we have to
be in, so don't waste too much time on debate on reform."

He estimated that 80 per cent of his members were in favour of being in Europe,
but "the challenge is that Europe is moving at a pace, and I don't find many CBI
members who have an appetite to be part of that ever closer union of the
eurozone core. But they are interested in us being a full shareholder in a wider
Europe."

The theme of the evening quickly emerged: reform. All four panellists hoped to
see Britain successfully negotiate with Europe to secure a better deal in
Europe. John Mills, the chairman of the consumer products company JML, the
co-chairman of Business for Britain and a leading Labour donor, said he wanted
to see a renegotiation of Britain's EU membership before letting voters have
their say in a referendum. "I think we should try, but I have to say I am not
very optimistic that we are going to get the changes that most people in this
country would like to see."

Roland Rudd, the chairman of the communications group RLM Finsbury and the
chairman of Business for New Europe, said Britain was not alone. Other countries
also wanted reform of the European Union and its powers. The French might say
"not over our dead body", but "the odd man in Europe is France. It is not
Britain". He said, however, attempts to negotiate a return of some powers to
member states would not be backed by other countries if they thought impossible
demands were being made to engineer an exit. "No one is going to support us if
they think we are going to leave. You have to get the balance right and be
serious about the reform agenda."

Willie Walsh said he had witnessed several referenda in his native Ireland and
was concerned that people voted without understanding the facts. The chief
executive of International Airlines Group said he had been dismayed by some of
his dealings with the European Commission. "They shock me. I don't rate these
people." But he said he was pro-Europe. "I don't think Britain has really played
a role in trying to shape Europe. We could play a more influential role in
shaping the structure and direction of Europe."

Walsh highlighted a great unknown at the heart of the European debate. People
might agree the EU needed to be reformed, but what if, after all the
negotiations, things had not changed? "Would you leave if it wasn't any better?
That's a difficult question."

A member of the audience asked what the panellists would want returned from
Brussels. Walsh said Britain needed more control over labour legislation. Rudd
said regional funding policy should be controlled by individual member
countries.

Mills said there was a "whole range" of powers that should be brought back, but
that "the most crucial negotiations are going to be about what sort of role
[Britain] is going to have in the EU if the eurozone becomes much closer. The
crucial negotiations aren't going to be about repatriation of the 48-hour
working week, they are going to be broader issues of exactly how a country like
Britain is going to be outside the eurozone."

John Cridland recalled how, as a teenager, he had got excited about tectonic
plate theory. "Whether we have earthquakes or volcanoes depends on tectonic
plates moving. Europe seems to me now to have two tectonic plates: those in the
eurozone; and those who want to be enthusiastic full participating members of a
wider union and with no intention of joining the euro. I think many of the
defining issues of the new Europe are how those two tectonic plates are going to
get on with each other."

He didn't mention that troublesome third plate: those who don't want to be in
Europe at all. As the sun set beyond the rim of the London basin, it was easy to
imagine that plate resulting in a disturbance that would cause untold excitement
among seismologists.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COVER PHOTOGRAPH AND BELOW: TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, MATTHEW LLOYD
The London skyline from the Gherkin on Monday evening, above, and delegates
gather for the Summit's opening debate on Britain's place in Europe, right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'We fail to defend our interests';
andrew clark, deputy business editor, on britain's policy towards europe

BYLINE: ANDREW CLARK

SECTION: CEO SUMMIT;FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words


Any referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union could be thrown
into chaos by an ill-timed "loopy" human rights ruling from Strasbourg, the head
of the Institute of Directors (IoD) has warned.

More than 60 per cent of the IoD's members export to the EU, according to Simon
Walker, the institute's Director General. Although most are supportive of a
renegotiation of Britain's membership, most would be "very worried" by an
all-out exit.

"You could have a rational debate - then two weeks before, some loopy human
rights ruling on Abu Qatada will turn the whole thing around," Walker said
yesterday during a discussion on Britain's policy towards Europe at the summit.
He pointed out that although the European Court of Human Rights was separate
from the EU, the two were connected in the public mind.

Many business leaders are impatient and frustrated by what they see as
unreasonably heavy-handed regulation from Brussels, and are mystified, too, by
Britain's seeming failure to defend its interests.

Paul Drechsler, chief executive of Wates, the construction company, said a
referendum was a "lethal weapon" if the public did not understand the issue. "In
one of the nations that has some of the best diplomatic skills in the world, we
seem to be failing to make our views heard."

A lack of "emotional connection" between Britain and Europe made the
relationship tricky, said Charles Gallagher, chairman of Abbey, the
housebuilder. "If you stand in Berlin's history museum and read the history of
Europe, there are roughly three mentions of Britain."

Simon Warshaw, group managing director at investment bank UBS, hit out at the
amount of financial regulation emanating from Brussels, ranging from bonus caps
to liquidity requirements.

However, Roland Rudd, chairman of Business for New Europe, suggested that
Europe's interventions were often exaggerated. He cited research by the House of
Commons that suggested 90 per cent of regulation in Britain came from London,
rather than Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'We need a new deal on Europe or we quit';
Historians say EU is wrecking lives

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 423 words


The European Union is undermining Britain's legal traditions and eroding
parliamentary sovereignty, a group of leading historians claims.

In a letter to The Times published today, 22 academics urge David Cameron to
make one more attempt to negotiate a looser relationship with Europe "before
thinking about leaving".

The EU is "wrecking lives" and fanning extremism, they say, and the Government
must act to protect British values. "New taxes which penalise Britain's historic
financial and mercantile trade, the disregard for the decisions of voters and
refusal to allow the people of Europe a greater say over their governance are
antagonistic to British values. The brutal reality of 'European Union' is
manifesting itself in the Mediterranean where EU economic policies have wrecked
lives and now fan the flames of aggressive extremism."

The letter has been signed by 22 figures, including Professor David Abulafia, of
the University of Cambridge, Professor Jeremy Black, of the University of
Exeter, and Andrew Roberts, the TV historian. Signatories on the left include Dr
Han-Rog Kang and Dr Abigail Green, both of the University of Oxford.

The historians explicitly deny that they are acting "out of national or racial
preJudice" and make clear that leaving Europe must be a serious consideration.

The letter has been co-ordinated by Business for Britain, the campaign group
pushing for subtantial changes to Britain's relationship with Europe. It comes
three days before a symbolic Bill enshrining an EU referendum in law will be put
to a vote in the Commons.

Ed Balls, the Shadow Chancellor, appeared to shut down any chance of Labour
endorsing a referendum on the EU before the summer recess. He told The Times CEO
Summit: "I don't think the biggest priority for Britain right now is a political
row."

He said that Ed Miliband, Nick Clegg and David Cameron were united in the need
for reform of Europe and to prevent a "drift to the exit". He added: "The thing
I would like to see is to get to genuinely cross-party consensus about the
importance of Britain being a strong player outside the single currency."

However, Labour was ridiculed in the Commons yesterday over suggestions that it
would abstain in Friday's vote. The Tory MP Sir Tony Baldry warned the House:
"This is not an issue which Parliament and Members of Parliament can run away
from."

David Cameron said Labour's response made them look "feeble". Addressing Mr
Miliband, he said: "When it comes to this Bill on Friday ... surely you must
have an opinion?"

Letters, page 29

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EU officials 'weaken the case for Europe'

BYLINE: Andrew Clark

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 546 words


The boss of International Airlines Group has complained that the second-rate
calibre of top officials in Brussels makes it difficult for business to back the
European Union.

At a debate on Britain's place in Europe during The Times CEO Summit, leading
corporate figures clashed on the wisdom of the coalition's proposed referendum
on Europe.

Willie Walsh, the chief executive of IAG, the parent company of British Airways
and Iberia, criticised Britain for sniping from the sidelines rather than fully
engaging with Brussels - and insisted that there was no need for a public vote.

However, he said that making the case for Europe was often a tough slog. "My
dealings with the European Commission are not something that would encourage me
to be pro-European. I don't rate these people. The quality of people in the
commission is actually quite weak," he said. In spite of his misgivings, Mr
Walsh, who is from Ireland, drew on the experience of his own country to oppose
a referendum. "I don't think we need a referendum," he said. "Ireland has had
nine on the EU - going back as far as 1972. Two have been repeats because we got
the answer wrong the first time."

So far, few individual business leaders have been willing to take a clear stand
on whether Britain should hold a poll on EU membership.

John Cridland, the director-general of the CBI, told the CEO Summit that the
overwhelming majority of his members had adopted a position of "in Europe - but
with reform".

"The challenge is that Europe is moving at a pace," he said. "I don't find many
CBI members with the appetite to be in an ever-closer Europe. But they still
want to be full shareholders of a wider Europe."

The CEO Summit has brought together more than 100 senior business figures for
two days of debate. Among the topics to be tackled today will be energy policy,
the growth of the emerging market nations, Britain's export strategy and
intellectual property.

At the opening debate on Europe, John Mills, Labour's biggest private donor,
suggested that Ed Miliband would have no choice but to endorse plans for a
referendum in the next parliament if he wanted to win an election that was
likely to be "very tight".

He said that the parliamentary Labour Party was overwhelmingly pro-European - in
contrast with many of its grassroots members, who tended to be more eurosceptic.
"That is the difficult dilemma Labour will have to wrestle within terms of
deciding whether to have a referendum after the next election," said Mr Mills,
who is chairman of the mail order business JML Direct.

A leading pro-Brussels campaigner took issue with some of the expectations
raised by politicians calling for renegotiation of Britain's EU membership.

Roland Rudd, the chairman of Business for New Europe, said it was unrealistic to
expect that Britain would be able to repatriate chunks of European policy. "No
one's going to support us if they think we're going to leave," Mr Rudd said.

The audience heard that, according to recent polling, Britons tended to be in
line with the rest of Europe on their attitudes towards policy from Brussels -
except for the issue of immigration. Fifty-two per cent of Britons said they
believed that free movement of labour within Europe was beneficial, against a
Europe-wide average of 67 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Willie Walsh said that he did not rate the people working in Brussels

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Top Labour donor warns party not to hijack EU Bill

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 544 words


Labour's biggest private donor has urged the party not to interfere in a Tory
attempt to enshrine an EU referendum in law. John Mills, who gave Labour £1.65
million in shares in January, said that offering voters a referendum in its next
election manifesto could make the difference in securing a majority for Ed
Miliband in 2015.

He warned that any Labour attempt to hijack a Bill enshrining an EU referendum
in law risked making the party look as if it was out to stop a referendum from
happening.

The Bill, promoted by Tory backbencher James Wharton and offering an in/out EU
referendum in 2017, is set to be put to its first vote on Friday. While Labour
MPs will abstain, there is now talk among some senior party figures of
outflanking David Cameron by amending the Bill to bring forward the referendum
date.

The party will have plenty of time to debate the idea over the summer, as
amendments to the Bill can be made when Parliament returns from its summer
recess in September.

Mr Mills, who appeared at The Times CEO Summit last night and is in favour of a
referendum, warned the party against such a move. "One of the problems is an
amendment of that sort would be in danger of being something that would upset
the apple cart," he said. "An uncertainty in all of this is what people's
intentions are - whether they are really supporting [a referendum], or whether
they are really out there to derail it. This is a really major constitutional
matter. I don't think it helps to get it caught up with party political
positioning and this sort of thing." He said that measures needed to solve the
eurozone's debt crisis could yet "trigger off" Britain's so-called "referendum
lock". The lock, created by the coalition Government, means that a referendum
has to take place before any further powers are transferred from Westminster to
Brussels.

"We need to have a referendum at some stage over the next four years," he said.
"We are fairly opportunistic about when it actually takes place. The main thing
is to make sure it actually happens."

He added that Ed Balls, the Shadow Chancellor, and Jon Cruddas, who is drawing
up Labour's next manifesto, were sympathetic to the idea of holding a referendum
. "I suspect that [Labour] is moving to supporting a referendum," he said. "But
I don't think in the end that the Labour Party is going to have much choice."

There are discussions taking place within the Shadow Cabinet about how Labour
should approach an EU referendum.

Senior figures are discussing the possibility of edging towards backing a
referendum in the party's next election manifesto.

One Labour source said that Lord Wood, one of Mr Miliband's most senior
advisers, had "let the cat out of the bag" in an interview last week in which he
suggested it was "conceivable" that Labour would back a referendum in its next
manifesto.

Mr Miliband remains nervous about the idea of backing a referendum, believing
that it would not currently be in Britain's national interest.

Nick Clegg said yesterday that the Lib Dems would be abstaining in Friday's
vote. He said that his MPs would not "waste any of our time helping the
Conservatives indulge in their own internal feuds". He said that the Lib Dems
would always be "the party of 'in' " during any referendum campaign.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Mills backs an EU referendum

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Businesses want access to EU markets ... but not at any cost;
The best way forward on the European question would be renegotiation - not
walking away, says John Longworth

BYLINE: John Longworth

SECTION: BRITAINS PLACE IN THE WORLD;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 764 words


When it comes to the Europe debate, British businesses don't want a straight
in-out referendum. In fact, there is a strong voice building for an alternative
vision. When we put the question to members of the British Chambers of Commerce,
64 per cent said that renegotiation, rather than further integration or outright
withdrawal, is most likely to have the biggest economic benefit to the UK - as
long as this means that certain European Union powers are transferred back from
Brussels to Westminster.

Businesses want access to the European trading bloc, but not at any cost. So
David Cameron, the Prime Minister, has a strong mandate from business to try to
rebalance Britain's relationship with the European Union. First, he must
reassure himself that Britain has a strong hand in any negotiation. The 17
members of the eurozone cannot meet their need for greater fiscal and political
integration without the acquiescence of all 27 member states. EU countries also
depend on trade with Britain, not just the other way round. It is not in
Europe's interest to see the UK go.

Pro-European politicians who call for us to acquiesce to the current regime are
playing right into the hands of those who want us to withdraw immediately. Both
sides are in danger of crowding out the possibility of a negotiated settlement,
and neither is acting in the best economic interest of this country.

Britain would lose with an "in" vote because it would be staying "in" a European
Union that is moving towards the sort of federal union that British businesses
and voters say they do not want. Some 85 per cent of our member companies have
said no to further integration, and I am sure that a similar percentage of the
British public would say the same. Let us be clear: voting "in" would not let
Britons choose the status quo. Although many europhile politicians and 26 per
cent of our business people favour the status quo, preserving today's EU as it
stands is impossible. Europe is changing, and rapidly. The eurozone, if it is to
survive, requires a level of both fiscal and political integration that most
Britons would not countenance.

Britain also loses with an "out" vote. Although our trade with the rest of the
world is growing, pulling up the drawbridge is not a win for the UK economy.
Only 12 per cent of our businesses favour this option, because it would mean
losing the four freedoms of goods, capital, services and people. Although far
from perfect, these give British businesses access to one of the biggest unified
markets in the world.

There is no question that a changed relationship between Britain and the
European Union would need to be put to a referendum, as any proposed change
would be a major alteration to our constitutional settlement. The real choice
that the British public should be given is between a renegotiated relationship
and leaving the European Union altogether. That means giving the Prime Minister
the support, space and time required to negotiate a better deal for Britain. Of
course, it needs to be a proper deal.

No one believes this will be easy. The timeframe currently proposed - the
referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union is "by the end of 2017"
- is too long. There is outright hostility to Britain's position from some
quarters. And for a renegotiation to succeed, the European institutions must
believe that our leaders are strong, serious and - if needed - ready to walk
away.

Yet we may be approaching a moment in time where success is possible.
Developments in the eurozone and change at the top of the European Commission in
2014 may provide that chance.

To win the right deal for Britain, the Prime Minister must seize the mantle of
pragmatism. Europe is fast becoming the issue that will define Mr Cameron's
premiership. To get it right, he must listen to all businesses, not just the
familiar names, as well as the general tenor of public opinion. Crucially, the
other side must be made to understand that he is prepared to stand up and leave
the negotiating table altogether if he is to be taken seriously - and if he is
to secure a deal.

John Longworth is Director-General of the British Chambers of Commerce

60% of British companies believe that withdrawal from the EU would be bad for
business 33% say withdrawal followed by a trade agreement could be good 64%
believe that staying in the EU with powers transferred from Brussels to
Westminster would be good 23% are in favour of remaining and further integration
with member states 42% say retaining the status quo would be bad for business
Source: BCC survey of 4,400 businesses

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Investors wonder why we would leave the EU;
The European Union is too important to be left to capricious whims says the
Business Secretary, Vince Cable

BYLINE: Vince Cable

SECTION: BRITAINS PLACE IN THE WORLD;FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 608 words


The Coalition Government has created a good offer for investors in the UK.
Business taxes are now highly competitive. There is a free trading culture and
foreign investors are made welcome.

Labour markets are flexible. The Government has maintained investment in
world-class universities, science and apprenticeships even in a difficult time
for public spending. And there is, within the industrial strategy, a framework
for long-term partnership between business and government.

But we need to counter doubts as to whether Britain really is open for business.
There are repeated complaints from the business world that visa administration
is discouraging visitors from the emerging market economies and obstructing
businesses in the UK who need senior and specialist staff from overseas.

When big-spending Chinese visitors go to Germany rather than come here to the UK
and talented Brazilian students switch from the UK to the USA then there is a
challenge we have to address.

That problem can be fixed with firm political leadership. What can less easily
be fixed is the growing, gnawing doubt among Asian and American investors about
Britain's future role in the European Union.

Many of them - from banks to car companies - are based in the UK because they
see us as a gateway to the Vince Cable wants Britain to be at the heart of
Europe influencing policy, like Germany does EU Single Market, the biggest
concentration of purchasing power in the world, by far.

Seen from the outside, Britain has an ideal position in relation to the EU. It
is as a fully integrated member, able to determine how the Single Market should
be adapted to incorporate digital trade, for example.

At the same time Britain takes the lead role in pressing for an outward looking
trade policy, as with the launch of the EU-US Transatlantic Trade and Investment
Partnership negotiations. We are winning the argument in Europe for a
deregulatory business culture. However, the UK is not directly involved in the
Eurozone convulsions and has the advantage of a flexible exchange rate in
helping the country adjust to the painful consequences of the banking crisis and
recession.

The companies I meet, who all regard the UK as an excellent place to do
business, are mystified as to why all of this should be thrown into doubt by
those seeking an exit from the EU, and they worry about the uncertainty now
being generated in the years running up to any referendum.

Those who seek exit appear to believe in a comfort zone of semi-detached
membership of the Single Market as enjoyed by Norway or Switzerland. But these
countries have no say in formulating the rules and regulations to which they
must submit. If we went that way, the rules would stay, the influence would
diminish, and the investors leave.

Others argue that Britain has a viable future outside the European economic
orbit altogether, implying that this makes it easier to trade with Asia and
other rapidly growing parts of the world. But Germany, in particular, is proving
rather better at doing just that while firmly anchored in Europe; indeed at the
heart of it.

Nor is there any sign that important trading and investment partners would be
interested in cutting special deals with the UK rather than a much bigger
European Union. Again, this position is deluded.

The debate around a British exit is a massive diversion of political energy when
the country needs single-minded concentration on repairing the economic damage
after the financial crash and on maintaining competitiveness. It is to be hoped
that serious members of the political class will provide the confidence and
continuity that inward investors need.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chinese visitors buying European goods in London's Harrods store

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain's place in Europe and beyond

SECTION: BRITAINS PLACE IN THE WORLD;FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 217 words


"The UK is already in the top ten countries in the world in which to do
business. In the next three years, we want to see Britain up there in the top
five places in the world to do business, and as the number one in Europe to do
business. This is about sending the message out loud and clear to international
investors, to entrepreneurs at home: Britain is not just getting back in the
black; we are getting back in business." David Cameron prime minister plan for
britain's success | june 2013 "Germany - and I personally - want Britain to be
an important part and an active member of the European Union ... We are prepared
to talk about British wishes, but we must always bear in mind that other
countries have different wishes and we must find a fair compromise."

Angela Merkel chancellor of germany on britain's proposed eu referendum |
january 2013 "For the UK to pay its way in the coming years, we need to renew
our role as a trading nation. That means an assessment of what we do well and
how that matches up with the needs of high-growth economies. We must ruthlessly
target exports towards high-growth markets. But as we diversify, we cannot lose
access to the biggest market in the world - the EU's Single Market."

John Cridland director-general confederation of british industries | june 2013

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU officials 'weaken the case for Europe'

BYLINE: Andrew Clark

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 546 words


The boss of International Airlines Group has complained that the second-rate
calibre of top officials in Brussels makes it difficult for business to back the
European Union.

At a debate on Britain's place in Europe during The Times CEO Summit, leading
corporate figures clashed on the wisdom of the coalition's proposed referendum
on Europe.

Willie Walsh, the chief executive of IAG, the parent company of British Airways
and Iberia, criticised Britain for sniping from the sidelines rather than fully
engaging with Brussels - and insisted that there was no need for a public vote.

However, he said that making the case for Europe was often a tough slog. "My
dealings with the European Commission are not something that would encourage me
to be pro-European. I don't rate these people. The quality of people in the
commission is actually quite weak," he said. In spite of his misgivings, Mr
Walsh, who is from Ireland, drew on the experience of his own country to oppose
a referendum. "I don't think we need a referendum," he said. "Ireland has had
nine on the EU - going back as far as 1972. Two have been repeats because we got
the answer wrong the first time."

So far, few individual business leaders have been willing to take a clear stand
on whether Britain should hold a poll on EU membership.

John Cridland, the director-general of the CBI, told the CEO Summit that the
overwhelming maJority of his members had adopted a position of "in Europe - but
with reform".

"The challenge is that Europe is moving at a pace," he said. "I don't find many
CBI members with the appetite to be in an ever-closer Europe. But they still
want to be full shareholders of a wider Europe."

The CEO Summit has brought together more than 100 senior business figures for
two days of debate. Among the topics to be tackled today will be energy policy,
the growth of the emerging market nations, Britain's export strategy and
intellectual property.

At the opening debate on Europe, John Mills, Labour's biggest private donor,
suggested that Ed Miliband would have no choice but to endorse plans for a
referendum in the next parliament if he wanted to win an election that was
likely to be "very tight".

He said that the parliamentary Labour Party was overwhelmingly pro-European - in
contrast with many of its grassroots members, who tended to be more eurosceptic.
"That is the difficult dilemma Labour will have to wrestle within terms of
deciding whether to have a referendum after the next election," said Mr Mills,
who is chairman of the mail order business JML Direct.

A leading pro-Brussels campaigner took issue with some of the expectations
raised by politicians calling for renegotiation of Britain's EU membership.

Roland Rudd, the chairman of Business for New Europe, said it was unrealistic to
expect that Britain would be able to repatriate chunks of European policy. "No
one's going to support us if they think we're going to leave," Mr Rudd said.

The audience heard that, according to recent polling, Britons tended to be in
line with the rest of Europe on their attitudes towards policy from Brussels -
except for the issue of immigration. Fifty-two per cent of Britons said they
believed that free movement of labour within Europe was beneficial, against a
Europe-wide average of 67 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Willie Walsh said that he did not rate the people working in Brussels

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Top Labour donor warns party not to hijack EU Bill

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 544 words


Labour's biggest private donor has urged the party not to interfere in a Tory
attempt to enshrine an EU referendum in law. John Mills, who gave Labour £1.65
million in shares in January, said that offering voters a referendum in its next
election manifesto could make the difference in securing a majority for Ed
Miliband in 2015.

He warned that any Labour attempt to hiJack a Bill enshrining an EU referendum
in law risked making the party look as if it was out to stop a referendum from
happening.

The Bill, promoted by Tory backbencher James Wharton and offering an in/out EU
referendum in 2017, is set to be put to its first vote on Friday. While Labour
MPs will abstain, there is now talk among some senior party figures of
outflanking David Cameron by amending the Bill to bring forward the referendum
date.

The party will have plenty of time to debate the idea over the summer, as
amendments to the Bill can be made when Parliament returns from its summer
recess in September.

Mr Mills, who appeared at The Times CEO Summit last night and is in favour of a
referendum, warned the party against such a move. "One of the problems is an
amendment of that sort would be in danger of being something that would upset
the apple cart," he said. "An uncertainty in all of this is what people's
intentions are - whether they are really supporting [a referendum], or whether
they are really out there to derail it. This is a really major constitutional
matter. I don't think it helps to get it caught up with party political
positioning and this sort of thing."

He said that measures needed to solve the eurozone's debt crisis could yet
"trigger off" Britain's so-called "referendum lock". The lock, created by the
coalition Government, means that a referendum has to take place before any
further powers are transferred from Westminster to Brussels.

"We need to have a referendum at some stage over the next four years," he said.
"We are fairly opportunistic about when it actually takes place. The main thing
is to make sure it actually happens."

He added that Ed Balls, the Shadow Chancellor, and Jon Cruddas, who is drawing
up Labour's next manifesto, were sympathetic to the idea of holding a referendum
. "I suspect that [Labour] is moving to supporting a referendum," he said. "But
I don't think in the end that the Labour Party is going to have much choice."

There are discussions taking place within the Shadow Cabinet about how Labour
should approach an EU referendum.

Senior figures are discussing the possibility of edging towards backing a
referendum in the party's next election manifesto.

One Labour source said that Lord Wood, one of Mr Miliband's most senior
advisers, had "let the cat out of the bag" in an interview last week in which he
suggested it was "conceivable" that Labour would back a referendum in its next
manifesto.

Mr Miliband remains nervous about the idea of backing a referendum, believing
that it would not currently be in Britain's national interest.

Nick Clegg said yesterday that the Lib Dems would be abstaining in Friday's
vote. He said that his MPs would not "waste any of our time helping the
Conservatives indulge in their own internal feuds". He said that the Lib Dems
would always be "the party of 'in' " during any referendum campaign.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Labour set to lose election on Europe, party donor warns

BYLINE: Sam Coates; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words


Ed Miliband risks being out of touch with Labour voters and losing the election
because of Europe, the party's biggest private donor said last night.

John Mills told the Times CEO Summit that voters would be more willing to
support the party if they thought it offered a choice on Europe.

Mr Mills, the veteran businessman who chairs JML, the shopping channel, and gave
the party £1.65 million in shares in January, is pushing the party to put a
referendum on Britain's membership in the next election.

"The Parliamentary Labour Party is pretty Europhile and the party is too," Mr
Mills said. "But the problem for the Labour Party is that the potential Labour
voter is more Eurosceptic than the Labour Party itself. That's a difficult
dilemma that the leadership is going to have to wrestle with over the next few
months."

Asked whether Mr Miliband would back a referendum despite his doubts that it is
in the national interest, Mr Mills said: "I think it's very difficult to tell.
My personal view that the Labour party is more likely to win if it's more open
to this."

He added that Mr Miliband had been right to avoid Tory attempts to set a
referendum deadline in law. A Private Member's Bill to that effect, by
backbencher James Wharton, is due for debate on Friday and has the backing of
the Tory leadership.

While Labour MPs will abstain, there is now talk among some senior party figures
of outflanking David Cameron by amending the Bill to bring forward the
referendum date. The party has time to debate the idea, as amendments can be
tabled after the parliamentary summer recess.

Mr Mills said it was uncertain whether the intention was to back a referendum or
try to derail it. He added: "This is a really MAJOR constitutional matter. I
don't think it helps to get it caught up with party political positioning and
this sort of thing."

He said he did not think a renegotiation of Britain's EU membership would make
much difference, hinting that in a referendum he would vote for Britain to leave
- almost certainly putting him at odds with the party he supports.

Earlier in the day, he said that Ed Balls, the Shadow Chancellor, and Jon
Cruddas, who is drawing up Labour's next manifesto, were sympathetic to the idea
of holding a referendum. He said he suspected that the party was moving towards
backing a referendum, but in the end might have little choice.

He said that solutions to the euro crisis could yet "trigger off" Britain's
socalled "referendum lock". The lock, created by the coalition Government,
requires a referendum before more powers are transferred from Westminster to
Brussels.

"We need to have a referendum at some stage over the next four years," he said.
"We are fairly opportunistic about when it actually takes place. The main thing
is to make sure it actually happens."

Yesterday, Nick Clegg said that the Lib Dems would abstain on Friday, adding
that his MPs would not "waste any of our time helping the Conservatives indulge
in their own internal feuds". In a referendum, his party would campaign to stay
in the EU, he said.

His aides said later that the Lib Dem manifesto would not back an in-out
referendum but would promise a referendum on any transfer of powers from
Westminster.

Rachel Sylvester, page 21

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Top Labour donor warns party not to HIJACK EU Bill

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 544 words


Labour's biggest private donor has urged the party not to interfere in a Tory
attempt to enshrine an EU referendum in law. John Mills, who gave Labour £1.65
million in shares in January, said that offering voters a referendum in its next
election manifesto could make the difference in securing a MAJORITY for Ed
Miliband in 2015.

He warned that any Labour attempt to hiJack a Bill enshrining an EU referendum
in law risked making the party look as if it was out to stop a referendum from
happening.

The Bill, promoted by Tory backbencher James Wharton and offering an in/out EU
referendum in 2017, is set to be put to its first vote on Friday. While Labour
MPs will abstain, there is now talk among some senior party figures of
outflanking David Cameron by amending the Bill to bring forward the referendum
date.

The party will have plenty of time to debate the idea over the summer, as
amendments to the Bill can be made when Parliament returns from its summer
recess in September.

Mr Mills, who appeared at The Times CEO Summit last night and is in favour of a
referendum, warned the party against such a move. "One of the problems is an
amendment of that sort would be in danger of being something that would upset
the apple cart," he said. "An uncertainty in all of this is what people's
intentions are - whether they are really supporting [a referendum], or whether
they are really out there to derail it. This is a really MAJOR constitutional
matter. I don't think it helps to get it caught up with party political
positioning and this sort of thing." He said that measures needed to solve the
eurozone's debt crisis could yet "trigger off" Britain's so-called "referendum
lock". The lock, created by the coalition Government, means that a referendum
has to take place before any further powers are transferred from Westminster to
Brussels.

"We need to have a referendum at some stage over the next four years," he said.
"We are fairly opportunistic about when it actually takes place. The main thing
is to make sure it actually happens."

He added that Ed Balls, the Shadow Chancellor, and Jon Cruddas, who is drawing
up Labour's next manifesto, were sympathetic to the idea of holding a referendum
. "I suspect that [Labour] is moving to supporting a referendum," he said. "But
I don't think in the end that the Labour Party is going to have much choice."

There are discussions taking place within the Shadow Cabinet about how Labour
should approach an EU referendum.

Senior figures are discussing the possibility of edging towards backing a
referendum in the party's next election manifesto.

One Labour source said that Lord Wood, one of Mr Miliband's most senior
advisers, had "let the cat out of the bag" in an interview last week in which he
suggested it was "conceivable" that Labour would back a referendum in its next
manifesto.

Mr Miliband remains nervous about the idea of backing a referendum, believing
that it would not currently be in Britain's national interest.

Nick Clegg said yesterday that the Lib Dems would be abstaining in Friday's
vote. He said that his MPs would not "waste any of our time helping the
Conservatives indulge in their own internal feuds". He said that the Lib Dems
would always be "the party of 'in' " during any referendum campaign.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

No 10 gives in over married tax break to stop backbench revolt

BYLINE: Francis Elliott; Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 603 words


Tory backbenchers threatening a revolt over David Cameron's failure to deliver a
tax break for married couples have won a pledge that it will be introduced
within months.

The absence of legislation to recognise marriage in the tax system, a key
Conservative manifesto promise, had become emblematic of a wider frustration
over delays to Tory policy.

Fed up at the Government's refusal to set a timetable for introducing the break,
a backbencher tabled an amendment to the Finance Bill committing it to
publishing legislation this year.

Confronted with the prospect of having to vote against his own policy in the
Commons, the Prime Minister yesterday insisted he was planning to introduce the
measure soon.

The exact details of the tax break are likely to come in his speech to the
Conservative Party conference in October. The measure would then be formally
introduced in the Autumn Statement a month later.

The concession places additional strain on the coalition since the Liberal
Democrats oppose the tax break for married couples and those in civil
partnerships on the grounds it is discriminatory. It also poses a problem for
George Osborne, a long-standing sceptic, who, as Chancellor, must find the cash
to pay for it.

David Gauke, the Treasury minister, wrote to Tory MPs promising it would be
introduced before the end of the Parliament.

But he would only say that the measure to bring in a tax break worth up to £150
would be introduced in "due course", leaving many still unhappy.

Mr Cameron's hand has been forced by Tim Loughton, a former Children's Minister,
who tabled an amendment to the Chancellor's Finance Bill to enshrine it into law
now.

Asked whether he would vote for the amendment bringing in his own policy Mr
Cameron said: "The Government is going to do this itself, very shortly, so I
think we should let the Government get on with it."

Later a No 10 source said: "We plan to bring forward Government proposals for a
Married Tax Allowance before the end of the year." Mr Loughton indicated he
would no longer seek to force a vote. Attention will now shift to when it comes
into effect, with April 2015, just before the general election, the most likely
date.

Under the terms of the Coalition Agreement, the Liberal Democrats can abstain
but not oppose the introduction of a married tax allowance. It is the second
time Mr Cameron has been forced to act by backbenchers looking to implement
official party policy unilaterally.

He embraced a Private Member's Bill guaranteeing a referendum on EU membership
to defuse a rebellion.

Yesterday he confirmed that he would vote for James Wharton's Bill at its second
reading this Friday. Most Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs are expected not to
attend the debate or vote.

Danny Alexander, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, expressed Lib Dem
frustration at the demands of Tory Eurosceptics as he poured scorn on Friday's
vote and attacked Mr Cameron's strategy on Europe.

By trying to repatriate powers from Brussels, the Conservatives were "wasting"
Britain's influence in Europe, he said, rather than using it to support the job
creation and growth.

In a reference to the threat posed by Nigel Farage, he said: "UKIP will come and
UKIP will go, but what matters is that Britain stays a full member of the
European Union, that we have a referendum as and when a major treaty change
takes place, but we don't try and conjure one up out of nothing for domestic
political reasons."

Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, is expected to say today that leaving the
EU is "neither a good nor a realistic economic option" and support a focus on
reforming Brussels from within.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Take the plunge on Europe, Ed. Britain won't vote to leave Ross Clark

BYLINE: Ross Clark

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 446 words


'Miliband" sounds like a word from the lexicon of psephology. I suggest the
following definition: a small group of voters who, in spite of their apparent
demographic insignificance, are potentially decisive in an election.

It is beginning to look as if Ed might find himself a miliband short of a
majority in 2015. A YouGov poll yesterday showed Labour's lead shrinking to five
points, and Labour strategists think they know the cause: their leader's refusal
to back an EU referendum. The miliband that could make all the difference in
2015 is a particular group: Labour-Conservative swing voters who want an in-out
vote on Europe.

Though he would have to swallow his pride, there is a simple way in which Ed
could reverse his fortunes: by announcing he has been persuaded that yes,
Britain does need a say on the EU, and the sooner the better.

What has he got to lose? Labour Europhiles won't be offended for long because Ed
will campaign to stay in Europe. But look what he has to gain: he would hammer
the wedge between David Cameron and Conservative Eurosceptics even deeper. Look,
the latter would say, even Ed now wants an immediate vote, so why are you intent
on keeping us waiting? And if Mr Cameron were forced to give way, the vote would
be to stay in Europe and Ed would look like a winner. How can I be so sure? I
have just given some thought as to how I would vote if there were a referendum
tomorrow. I am no friend of the EU. It is a body steeped in corruption, whose
auditors have refused to sign off its accounts for the past 18 years. It is
anti-democratic, founded by patricians with a distrust of the people. The Common
Agricultural Policy is mad.

I ought, then, to be a dream for canvassers from the "out" campaign. But could I
bring myself to vote to leave just at the moment when the EU is embarking on a
free trade deal with the US that could enrich us? Could I vote to leave before
we had even attempted to renegotiate our membership? Almost certainly not.

Deep down, I suspect that any attempt at renegotiation will prove a farce. I
fear that French and US farmers will get together to scupper any meaningful
transatlantic trade deal. And yet still I can't stop myself hoping that what is
good about the EU - its commitment to free trade and the free movement of people
- will triumph over the vested interests that so often thwart its ideals.

I don't think I am alone. The British public veers towards the Eurosceptic, but
not so much so that it would press the eject button before any attempt at
renegotiation. Mr Miliband could turn this to his advantage, by backing an
immediate referendum.

Labour's lead is down and party strategists think they know why

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Take the plunge on Europe, Ed. Britain won't vote to leave

BYLINE: Ross Clark

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 446 words


'Miliband" sounds like a word from the lexicon of psephology. I suggest the
following definition: a small group of voters who, in spite of their apparent
demographic insignificance, are potentially decisive in an election.

It is beginning to look as if Ed might find himself a miliband short of a
maJority in 2015. A YouGov poll yesterday showed Labour's lead shrinking to five
points, and Labour strategists think they know the cause: their leader's refusal
to back an EU referendum. The miliband that could make all the difference in
2015 is a particular group: Labour-Conservative swing voters who want an in-out
vote on Europe.

Though he would have to swallow his pride, there is a simple way in which Ed
could reverse his fortunes: by announcing he has been persuaded that yes,
Britain does need a say on the EU, and the sooner the better.

What has he got to lose? Labour Europhiles won't be offended for long because Ed
will campaign to stay in Europe. But look what he has to gain: he would hammer
the wedge between David Cameron and Conservative Eurosceptics even deeper. Look,
the latter would say, even Ed now wants an immediate vote, so why are you intent
on keeping us waiting? And if Mr Cameron were forced to give way, the vote would
be to stay in Europe and Ed would look like a winner. How can I be so sure? I
have Just given some thought as to how I would vote if there were a referendum
tomorrow. I am no friend of the EU. It is a body steeped in corruption, whose
auditors have refused to sign off its accounts for the past 18 years. It is
anti-democratic, founded by patricians with a distrust of the people. The Common
Agricultural Policy is mad.

I ought, then, to be a dream for canvassers from the "out" campaign. But could I
bring myself to vote to leave Just at the moment when the EU is embarking on a
free trade deal with the US that could enrich us? Could I vote to leave before
we had even attempted to renegotiate our membership? Almost certainly not.

Deep down, I suspect that any attempt at renegotiation will prove a farce. I
fear that French and US farmers will get together to scupper any meaningful
transatlantic trade deal. And yet still I can't stop myself hoping that what is
good about the EU - its commitment to free trade and the free movement of people
- will triumph over the vested interests that so often thwart its ideals.

I don't think I am alone. The British public veers towards the Eurosceptic, but
not so much so that it would press the eJect button before any attempt at
renegotiation. Mr Miliband could turn this to his advantage, by backing an
immediate referendum.

Labour's lead is down and party strategists think they know why

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

No 10 gives in over married tax break to stop backbench revolt

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 604 words


Tory backbenchers threatening a revolt over David Cameron's failure to deliver a
tax break for married couples have won a pledge that it will be introduced
within months.

The absence of legislation to recognise marriage in the tax system, a key
Conservative manifesto promise, had become emblematic of a wider frustration
over delays to Tory policy.

Fed up at the Government's refusal to set a timetable for introducing the break,
a backbencher tabled an amendment to the Finance Bill committing it to
publishing legislation this year.

Confronted with the prospect of having to vote against his own policy in the
Commons, the Prime Minister yesterday insisted he was planning to introduce the
measure soon.

The exact details of the tax break are likely to come in his speech to the
Conservative Party conference in October. The measure would then be formally
introduced in the Autumn Statement a month later.

The concession places additional strain on the coalition since the Liberal
Democrats oppose the tax break for married couples and those in civil
partnerships on the grounds it is discriminatory. It also poses a problem for
George Osborne, a long-standing sceptic, who, as Chancellor, must find the cash
to pay for it.

David Gauke, the Treasury minister, wrote to Tory MPs promising it would be
introduced before the end of the Parliament.

But he would only say that the measure to bring in a tax break worth up to £150
would be introduced in "due course", leaving many still unhappy.

Mr Cameron's hand has been forced by Tim Loughton, a former Children's Minister,
who tabled an amendment to the Chancellor's Finance Bill to enshrine it into law
now.

Asked whether he would vote for the amendment bringing in his own policy Mr
Cameron said: "The Government is going to do this itself, very shortly, so I
think we should let the Government get on with it."

Later a No 10 source said: "We plan to bring forward Government proposals for a
Married Tax Allowance before the end of the year." Mr Loughton indicated he
would no longer seek to force a vote. Attention will now shift to when it comes
into effect, with April 2015, Just before the general election, the most likely
date.

Under the terms of the Coalition Agreement, the Liberal Democrats can abstain
but not oppose the introduction of a married tax allowance. It is the second
time Mr Cameron has been forced to act by backbenchers looking to implement
official party policy unilaterally.

He embraced a Private Member's Bill guaranteeing a referendum on EU membership
to defuse a rebellion. Yesterday he confirmed that he would vote for James
Wharton's Bill at its second reading this Friday. Most Labour and Liberal
Democrat MPs are expected not to attend the debate or vote.

Danny Alexander, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, expressed Lib Dem
frustration at the demands of Tory Eurosceptics as he poured scorn on Friday's
vote and attacked Mr Cameron's strategy on Europe.

By trying to repatriate powers from Brussels, the Conservatives were "wasting"
Britain's influence in Europe, he said, rather than using it to support the Job
creation and growth.

In a reference to the threat posed by Nigel Farage, he said: "UKIP will come and
UKIP will go, but what matters is that Britain stays a full member of the
European Union, that we have a referendum as and when a MAJOR treaty change
takes place, but we don't try and CONJURE one up out of nothing for domestic
political reasons."

Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, is expected to say today that leaving the
EU is "neither a good nor a realistic economic option" and support a focus on
reforming Brussels from within.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Marriage tax break in months after No 10 concedes to rebels

BYLINE: Francis Elliott; Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 604 words


Tory backbenchers threatening a revolt over David Cameron's failure to deliver a
tax break for married couples have won a pledge that it will be introduced
within months.

The absence of legislation to recognise marriage in the tax system, a key
Conservative manifesto promise, had become emblematic of a wider frustration
over delays to Tory policy.

Fed up at the Government's refusal to set a timetable for introducing the break,
a backbencher tabled an amendment to the Finance Bill committing it to
publishing legislation this year.

Confronted with the prospect of having to vote against his own policy in the
Commons, the Prime Minister yesterday insisted he was planning to introduce the
measure soon.

The exact details of the tax break are likely to come in his speech to the
Conservative Party conference in October. The measure would then be formally
introduced in the Autumn Statement a month later.

The concession places additional strain on the coalition since the Liberal
Democrats oppose the tax break for married couples and those in civil
partnerships on the grounds it is discriminatory. It also poses a problem for
George Osborne, a long-standing sceptic, who, as Chancellor, must find the cash
to pay for it.

David Gauke, the Treasury minister, wrote to Tory MPs promising it would be
introduced before the end of the Parliament.

But he would only say that the measure to bring in a tax break worth up to £150
would be introduced in "due course", leaving many still unhappy.

Mr Cameron's hand has been forced by Tim Loughton, a former Children's Minister,
who tabled an amendment to the Chancellor's Finance Bill to enshrine it into law
now.

Asked whether he would vote for the amendment bringing in his own policy Mr
Cameron said: "The Government is going to do this itself, very shortly, so I
think we should let the Government get on with it."

Later a No 10 source said: "We plan to bring forward Government proposals for a
Married Tax Allowance before the end of the year." Mr Loughton indicated he
would no longer seek to force a vote. Attention will now shift to when it comes
into effect, with April 2015, Just before the general election, the most likely
date.

Under the terms of the Coalition Agreement, the Liberal Democrats can abstain
but not oppose the introduction of a married tax allowance. It is the second
time Mr Cameron has been forced to act by backbenchers looking to implement
official party policy unilaterally.

He embraced a Private Member's Bill guaranteeing a referendum on EU membership
to defuse a rebellion. Yesterday he confirmed that he would vote for James
Wharton's Bill at its second reading this Friday. Most Labour and Liberal
Democrat MPs are expected not to attend the debate or vote.

Danny Alexander, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, expressed Lib Dem
frustration at the demands of Tory Eurosceptics as he poured scorn on Friday's
vote and attacked Mr Cameron's strategy on Europe.

By trying to repatriate powers from Brussels, the Conservatives were "wasting"
Britain's influence in Europe, he said, rather than using it to support the Job
creation and growth.

In a reference to the threat posed by Nigel Farage, he said: "UKIP will come and
UKIP will go, but what matters is that Britain stays a full member of the
European Union, that we have a referendum as and when a MAJOR treaty change
takes place, but we don't try and CONJURE one up out of nothing for domestic
political reasons."

Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, is expected to say today that leaving the
EU is "neither a good nor a realistic economic option" and support a focus on
reforming Brussels from within.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron lets rip at 'scandal' of EU waste;
Prime Minister furious at attempt to cut rebate ; Cameron lets rip at 'scandal'
of EU waste

BYLINE: Charles Bremner; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 731 words


David Cameron unleashed a blistering attack on Europe yesterday, in an outburst
that took aim at France, Spain and "scandalous" levels of EU waste.

In an astonishing show of frustration, the Prime Minister attempted to win
credit with Eurosceptic voters by claiming to have seen off a French-led "ambush
at 1am" to chisel £1.5 billion from Britain's EU rebate.

He said: "In this town you have to be ready for an ambush at any minute and that
means lock and load and have one up the spout when you're ready for it."

At what was expected to be a lowkey summit, the Prime Minister also confronted
Mariano Rajoy, Spain's Prime Minister, over allegations that Spanish officers
fired rubber bullets at a jet-skier in UK waters off Gibraltar.

Earlier he had ridiculed the European Parliament for producing a children's
colouring book, which suggested that MEPs had chauffeurs and needed the help of
three people to post a letter.

The Prime Minister called the book, which depicts the working day of "Mr and Mrs
MEP", "a genuine and scandalous waste of money". He added: "It's sexist at
that." In the text, Mr MEP works longer than Mrs MEP, who goes shopping. "This
is the sort of thing that the European Union needs to cut out if it is to regain
people's confidence on the way it spends money," Mr Cameron said.

He said that he had to convince fellow EU leaders that the booklet was not a
hoax when he showed it to them during a dinner on Thursday night. British
sources said that Angela Merkel, Germany's Chancellor, had been particularly
"astounded" by the book.

A European Parliament spokesman said the cost of the paper for the books came to
£912, but he was unable to give the bill for printing and production.

Mr Cameron's outburst in Brussels comes a week before a crucial Commons vote on
an EU referendum he plans to hold in 2017.

The Prime Minister's strategy on Europe was boosted at the summit by Ms Merkel's
suggestion that a new EU Treaty may be needed to deal with the euro zone's debt
crisis. A new treaty would hand Mr Cameron the chance to secure the new, looser
relationship with Europe that he has promised to deliver.

Mr Cameron's broadside is a sign Continued on page 2, col 5

Continued from page 1 that he now feels comfortable to go on the attack over
Europe, having once been under siege from his party for acting weakly on the
issue. Next Friday, Conservative MPs will be handed the chance to back a Bill
designed to enshrine the 2017 EU referendum in law. Mr Cameron voiced "immense
frustration" with what he depicted as an attempt to unravel a February agreement
on Britain's discount from its EU budget contributions.

After a meeting with Herman Van Rompuy, the EU Council President, he headed off
the effort by France to recalculate the rebate on British payments. "The end
result is that the rebate has been secured in an even more detailed way than
what we had in the past," he said. "It is, and I won't lie, it is immensely
frustrating sometimes, the way this organisation works. I think this is no way
for an organisation to conduct itself."

Mr Cameron's version of events was contested by the French and some EU
officials, who said that he was playing to his public. Diplomats from other
states grumbled that Britain had once again taken an EU summit "hostage" with
its demands over the rebate.Mr Cameron also said that he had protested to Mr
Rajoy over the alleged incident near Gibraltar. Spain has denied that it took
place.

"I did raise this with the Spanish Prime Minister," Mr Cameron said. "I think it
is very important that people on Gibraltar know that we support them ... I think
this is a totally unacceptable episode and I made that clear."

? EU leaders agreed yesterday to spend £5 billion on youth training schemes amid
record unemployment. Nearly a quarter of those aged 18 to 25 in the EU have no
work. Youth unemployment in Greece stands at 62.5 per cent and in Spain at 56
per cent. This contrasted with a 7.5 per cent rate in Germany. David Cameron
said that the number of young people out of work in Europe was "frankly
appalling" and a huge block on the EU's ability to compete in the global race.
Martin Schulz, the speaker of the European Parliament, said that the fund was a
"drop in the ocean", adding: "What we, the current generation of politicians,
owe these young people are good ideas, courage and prompt action."

Continued from page 1 that [...]

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The book depicts an MEP couple being collected by a chauffeur in a
limousine

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron lets rip at 'scandal' of EU waste;
Prime Minister furious at attempt to cut rebate Cameron lets rip at 'scandal' of
EU waste

BYLINE: Charles Bremner; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 717 words


David Cameron unleashed a blistering attack on Europe yesterday, in an outburst
that took aim at France, Spain and "scandalous" levels of EU waste.

In an astonishing show of frustration, the Prime Minister attempted to win
credit with Eurosceptic voters by claiming to have seen off a French-led "ambush
at 1am" to chisel £1.5 billion from Britain's EU rebate.

He said: "In this town you have to be ready for an ambush at any minute and that
means lock and load and have one up the spout when you're ready for it."

At what was expected to be a lowkey summit, the Prime Minister also confronted
Mariano RaJoy, Spain's Prime Minister, over allegations that Spanish officers
fired rubber bullets at a Jet-skier in UK waters off Gibraltar.

Earlier he had ridiculed the European Parliament for producing a children's
colouring book, which suggested that MEPs had chauffeurs and needed the help of
three people to post a letter.

The Prime Minister called the book, which depicts the working day of "Mr and Mrs
MEP", "a genuine and scandalous waste of money". He added: "It's sexist at
that." In the text, Mr MEP works longer than Mrs MEP, who goes shopping. "This
is the sort of thing that the European Union needs to cut out if it is to regain
people's confidence on the way it spends money," Mr Cameron said.

He said that he had to convince fellow EU leaders that the booklet was not a
hoax when he showed it to them during a dinner on Thursday night. British
sources said that Angela Merkel, Germany's Chancellor, had been particularly
"astounded" by the book.

A European Parliament spokesman said the cost of the paper for the books came to
£912, but he was unable to give the bill for printing and production.

Mr Cameron's outburst in Brussels comes a week before a crucial Commons vote on
an EU referendum he plans to hold in 2017.

The Prime Minister's strategy on Europe was boosted at the summit by Ms Merkel's
suggestion that a new EU Treaty may be needed to deal with the euro zone's debt
crisis. A new treaty would hand Mr Cameron the chance to secure the new, looser
relationship with Europe that he has promised to deliver.

Mr Cameron's broadside is a sign that he now feels comfortable to go on the
attack over Europe, having once been under siege from his party for acting
weakly on the issue. Next Friday, Conservative MPs will be handed the chance to
back a Bill designed to enshrine the 2017 EU referendum in law. Mr Cameron
voiced "immense frustration" with what he depicted as an attempt to unravel a
February agreement on Britain's discount from its EU budget contributions.

After a meeting with Herman Van Rompuy, the EU Council President, he headed off
the effort by France to recalculate the rebate on British payments.

"The end result is that the rebate has been secured in an even more detailed way
than what we had in the past," he said. "It is, and I won't lie, it is immensely
frustrating sometimes, the way this organisation works. I think this is no way
for an organisation to conduct itself."

Mr Cameron's version of events was contested by the French and some EU
officials, who said that he was playing to his public.

Diplomats from other states grumbled that Britain had once again taken an EU
summit "hostage" with its demands over the rebate.Mr Cameron also said that he
had protested to Mr RaJoy over the alleged incident near Gibraltar. Spain has
denied that it took place.

"I did raise this with the Spanish Prime Minister," Mr Cameron said. "I think it
is very important that people on Gibraltar know that we support them ... I think
this is a totally unacceptable episode and I made that clear."

EU leaders agreed yesterday to spend £5 billion on youth training schemes amid
record unemployment. Nearly a quarter of those aged 18 to 25 in the EU have no
work. Youth unemployment in Greece stands at 62.5 per cent and in Spain at 56
per cent. This contrasted with a 7.5 per cent rate in Germany. David Cameron
said that the number of young people out of work in Europe was "frankly
appalling" and a huge block on the EU's ability to compete in the global race.
Martin Schulz, the speaker of the European Parliament, said that the fund was a
"drop in the ocean", adding: "What we, the current generation of politicians,
owe these young people are good ideas, courage and prompt action."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The book depicts an MEP couple being collected by a chauffeur in a
limousine

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 22, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Trust and the EU;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 160 words


Sir, You say of James Wharton's Bill (leading article, June 20) that putting a
referendum on the statute books under such a Bill "is the only way that people
will be reassured that one will take place". People should feel no such
reassurance. The Bill is an illegitimate and ineffective attempt to bind a
future Parliament, namely the one that Parliament has decided by section 1(2) of
the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 will be chosen in a general election to be
held on May 7, 2015. The Bill requires the Secretary of State, before December
31, 2016, to appoint the day on which the referendum is to be held. But the new
Parliament elected on May 7, 2015 will be free to repeal this requirement.

It may very well do so, for all that the MPs who will shortly waste their time
considering this futile Bill can tell. To obviate such time-wasting, the Speaker
should rule the Bill out of order.

francis bennion Retired Parliamentary Counsel Budleigh Salterton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 22, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trust and the EU;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 160 words


Sir, You say of James Wharton's Bill (leading article, June 20) that putting a
referendum on the statute books under such a Bill "is the only way that people
will be reassured that one will take place". People should feel no such
reassurance. The Bill is an illegitimate and ineffective attempt to bind a
future Parliament, namely the one that Parliament has decided by section 1(2) of
the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 will be chosen in a general election to be
held on May 7, 2015. The Bill requires the Secretary of State, before December
31, 2016, to appoint the day on which the referendum is to be held. But the new
Parliament elected on May 7, 2015 will be free to repeal this requirement.

It may very well do so, for all that the MPs who will shortly waste their time
considering this futile Bill can tell. To obviate such time-wasting, the Speaker
should rule the Bill out of order.

francis bennion Retired Parliamentary Counsel Budleigh Salterton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory cheers for a toughened-up referendum Bill

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 227 words


Ministers would face a challenge in the courts for putting off an EU referendum,
under a toughened Tory attempt to enshrine the vote in law.

Conservative MPs cheered yesterday as the EU Referendum Bill began its journey
into law as it was presented in Parliament by the Tory backbencher James
Wharton. It has been sponsored by senior figures from across the Conservative
Party in a show of united support for a referendum which David Cameron has
pledged to hold in 2017.

Downing Street is backing the Bill.

However, it is not a piece of official government legislation, because it is not
supported by the Lib Dems. As a result, the Bill is likely to be killed off
before it becomes law.

Both the Lib Dems and Labour regard the Bill as a political stunt, and are set
to abstain when MPs are given the chance to vote on it next month.

The Bill has been toughened since a draft version was published. It now makes
clear that ministers have to announce the date of the referendum by the end of
2016. Failing to do so would open them up to a legal challenge.

In a victory for Eurosceptics, the wording of the question which voters would be
asked in a referendum has also been altered. It was originally going to ask if
voters wanted to "remain" in the EU. It now states: "Do you think that the
United Kingdom should be a member of the European Union?" Leading article, page
20

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trust and the EU;
The Bill putting the referendum promise on the statute books is essential

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 286 words


In the almost 40 years since the country was last asked to vote on membership of
the European Community, the institution has changed almost beyond recognition.
What was then known as the Common Market has become the European Union. And its
powers and membership have expanded greatly.

As each change has been made there have been calls for a fresh referendum. And
each of the parties have promised one, without delivering on their promises.

Labour's commitment before the election of 2005 to hold a vote on the proposed
EU constitution was scandalously withdrawn after they returned to power. The
Liberal Democrats promise before the last election of an in/out referendum
mysteriously disappeared when they were in a position to do something about it.
And David Cameron's "cast-iron guarantee" of a referendum on the Lisbon treaty
expired when the treaty was ratified.

So the two thoughts behind the European Union (Referendum) Bill published
yesterday are quite right. First, British voters deserve the chance to decide if
the country should remain in the EU. Second, no promise will be trusted. Putting
a referendum on the statute books is the only way that people will be reassured
that one will take place. Supporting the effort to do so is the only way that
David Cameron's most recent offer of a referendum can be believed.

Labour and the Liberal Democrats are hoping to starve the legislation of time,
killing the Bill without ever fighting it openly. This is cowardice. If they are
against the legislation they should be prepared to say so clearly and vote
against it properly.

It is also foolish. The promise of a referendum will be a big issue at the next
election. Hiding behind the sofa will not be an option.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory cheers for a toughened-up referendum Bill

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 227 words


Ministers would face a challenge in the courts for putting off an EU referendum,
under a toughened Tory attempt to enshrine the vote in law.

Conservative MPs cheered yesterday as the EU Referendum Bill began its Journey
into law as it was presented in Parliament by the Tory backbencher James
Wharton. It has been sponsored by senior figures from across the Conservative
Party in a show of united support for a referendum which David Cameron has
pledged to hold in 2017.

Downing Street is backing the Bill. However, it is not a piece of official
government legislation, because it is not supported by the Lib Dems. As a
result, the Bill is likely to be killed off before it becomes law.

Both the Lib Dems and Labour regard the Bill as a political stunt, and are set
to abstain when MPs are given the chance to vote on it next month.

The Bill has been toughened since a draft version was published. It now makes
clear that ministers have to announce the date of the referendum by the end of
2016. Failing to do so would open them up to a legal challenge.

In a victory for Eurosceptics, the wording of the question which voters would be
asked in a referendum has also been altered. It was originally going to ask if
voters wanted to "remain" in the EU. It now states: "Do you think that the
United Kingdom should be a member of the European Union?"

Leading article, page 30

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory cheers for a toughened-up referendum Bill

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 227 words


Ministers would face a challenge in the courts for putting off an EU referendum,
under a toughened Tory attempt to enshrine the vote in law.

Conservative MPs cheered yesterday as the EU Referendum Bill began its Journey
into law as it was presented in Parliament by the Tory backbencher James
Wharton. It has been sponsored by senior figures from across the Conservative
Party in a show of united support for a referendum which David Cameron has
pledged to hold in 2017.

Downing Street is backing the Bill.

However, it is not a piece of official government legislation, because it is not
supported by the Lib Dems. As a result, the Bill is likely to be killed off
before it becomes law.

Both the Lib Dems and Labour regard the Bill as a political stunt, and are set
to abstain when MPs are given the chance to vote on it next month.

The Bill has been toughened since a draft version was published. It now makes
clear that ministers have to announce the date of the referendum by the end of
2016. Failing to do so would open them up to a legal challenge.

In a victory for Eurosceptics, the wording of the question which voters would be
asked in a referendum has also been altered. It was originally going to ask if
voters wanted to "remain" in the EU. It now states: "Do you think that the
United Kingdom should be a member of the European Union?" Leading article, page
30

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 17, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Chief Whip escapes axe as Fox is tipped for Cabinet return

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 382 words


David Cameron is to spring a surprise in his forthcoming Cabinet reshuffle by
keeping his 71-year-old Chief Whip.

Many Tory MPs and ministers had thought the Prime Minister would ask fellow Old
Etonian Sir George Young to return to the backbenches, creating an opening for a
senior figure from the Right of the party.

But friends of Sir George, affectionately known as the "bicycling baronet", said
he was expected to stay put.

Tory sources suggested there will be a reshuffle among junior ministers next
month, before a Cabinet-level shake-up in the autumn.

Downing St believes that although Sir George's mild manners may not be in
keeping with most of his predecessors, his experience in the whips' office over
several decades means he is the right man to handle party discipline within a
coalition government.

"It is a very different job nowadays," said a friend. "New MPs, particularity
those who came in at the 2010 election, are independent-minded. The idea that
you can recreate the glory days of the whips' office by shouting at people and
pinning them against the wall is fantasy.

"It now requires a different kind of approach and one that lends itself to Sir
George's mentality."

Tories on the Right of the party are hoping a senior figure from their ranks
will be promoted. Liam Fox, the former Defence Secretary, is a leading
candidate.

He resigned in October 2011, mired in controversy over the Whitehall access he
gave to his unofficial adviser, Adam Werritty. In a sign of his close
co-operation with Downing St, Dr Fox is among the Tories - including Mr Cameron
and William Hague, the Foreign Secretary - sponsoring a Bill, to be published
this week, that is designed to enshrine an EU referendum in law.

It will demonstrate that Tory Eurosceptics have secured a key concession by
tweaking the question voters will be asked in a future EU referendum, which Mr
Cameron has pledged to hold in 2017.

They had been concerned that voters would be swayed into supporting Britain's EU
membership by a question that asked them if they wanted to "remain" in the EU.
The updated question will now ask voters if they want Britain to "be" in the EU.

Labour and the Lib Dems are due to abstain when MPs hold their first vote on the
Bill next month. They believe that it is a political stunt by the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 17, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Chief Whip escapes axe as Fox is tipped for Cabinet return

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 382 words


David Cameron is to spring a surprise in his forthcoming Cabinet reshuffle by
keeping his 71-year-old Chief Whip.

Many Tory MPs and ministers had thought the Prime Minister would ask fellow Old
Etonian Sir George Young to return to the backbenches, creating an opening for a
senior figure from the Right of the party.

But friends of Sir George, affectionately known as the "bicycling baronet", said
he was expected to stay put.

Tory sources suggested there will be a reshuffle among Junior ministers next
month, before a Cabinet-level shake-up in the autumn.

Downing St believes that although Sir George's mild manners may not be in
keeping with most of his predecessors, his experience in the whips' office over
several decades means he is the right man to handle party discipline within a
coalition government.

"It is a very different Job nowadays," said a friend. "New MPs, particularity
those who came in at the 2010 election, are independent-minded. The idea that
you can recreate the glory days of the whips' office by shouting at people and
pinning them against the wall is fantasy.

"It now requires a different kind of approach and one that lends itself to Sir
George's mentality."

Tories on the Right of the party are hoping a senior figure from their ranks
will be promoted. Liam Fox, the former Defence Secretary, is a leading
candidate. He resigned in October 2011, mired in controversy over the Whitehall
access he gave to his unofficial adviser, Adam Werritty.

In a sign of his close co-operation with Downing St, Dr Fox is among the Tories
- including Mr Cameron and William Hague, the Foreign Secretary - sponsoring a
Bill, to be published this week, that is designed to enshrine an EU referendum
in law.

It will demonstrate that Tory Eurosceptics have secured a key concession by
tweaking the question voters will be asked in a future EU referendum, which Mr
Cameron has pledged to hold in 2017.

They had been concerned that voters would be swayed into supporting Britain's EU
membership by a question that asked them if they wanted to "remain" in the EU.
The updated question will now ask voters if they want Britain to "be" in the EU.

Labour and the Lib Dems are due to abstain when MPs hold their first vote on the
Bill next month. They believe that it is a political stunt by the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Out of Europe and into what?;
nonfiction Chris Mullin on a lucid appraisal of life after the EU

BYLINE: Chris Mullin

SECTION: SATURDAY REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 717 words


Au Revoir, Europe: What if Britain left the EU?

by David Charter

Biteback, 334pp £14.99 £10.99; e-book £12.99

When, in the hope of buying himself some peace and quiet in his own party, David
Cameron committed the Government to a referendum on British membership of the
EU, he lit a long fuse. Not only did he ensure that much of the intervening
period would be spent in frenzied debate about the pros and cons of membership,
he also created the very real possibility that, four years from now, Britain
will be on the way out of the EU, with consequences at which we can only guess.

The gulf between the pros and the antis is wide and growing. On the one hand,
there are those who see the EU as a vast, bureaucratic, expensive monstrosity,
which has brought us few, if any, benefits, and deprived us of the capacity to
manage our affairs as we see fit. On the other, there are those who argue that
the EU has, for the first time in centuries, banished the prospect of war and
spread prosperity; the recent eurozone crisis is, they say, only a temporary
blip and, anyway, it is un-realistic to imagine that, in an increasingly
interdependent world, Britain could survive alone.

The eurozone crisis has brought the issue to a head. The pro-Europeans see it as
an opportunity to press for greater political and economic integration while the
antis see it as the moment to call a halt. In between the two camps lie the
great mass of British people, increasingly sceptical, but bemused and not quite
trusting the propaganda from either side. Come the referendum, they could go
either way.

What is lacking thus far is any dispassionate analysis of how we got to where we
are today and hard facts on which to base decisions about the future. Into that
gap steps David Charter. His credentials are impeccable: now The Times
correspondent in Berlin after five years in Brussels. "This is not a campaigning
book," he writes. Rather it is "an attempt to take stock of the perpetual
evolution of the EU and its impact on Britain since we joined 40 years ago and,
given our inexorable drift towards the exit, to see what it might mean to say au
revoir".

Charter has succeeded admirably. He has produced a well-researched,
well-documented and, above all, lucid and objective account of Britain's
increasingly fraught relationship with the EU. He describes how what began as a
purely economic union gradually evolved into something much deeper and more
complex, embracing not just free trade, but monetary, social, environmental and
even justice and defence policy. In purely monetary terms Britain has paid in
much more than it has got out, but other benefits - inward investment, a much
larger market for British goods and services, higher environmental standards,
cheap air travel - are harder to quantify. Plus of course, what is arguably the
EU's greatest achievement, the successful integration of the new democracies of
eastern Europe.

In the final chapters the author examines, issue by issue, the likely
consequences of withdrawal and sketches the alternatives. One possibility is a
two-speed Europe consisting of an inner core of eurozone members whose economies
are increasingly integrated and a second tier of members who seek the advantages
of free trade without being signed up to every dot and comma of EU monetary,
environmental and social policy.

The other possibility, complete withdrawal, presupposes that the UK could
resuscitate its links with the Commonwealth as a source of cheap agricultural
produce and perhaps seek membership of the less prescriptive North American Free
Trade Agreement.

As Charter makes clear, both alternatives amount to a giant leap into the
unknown and we would still be dependent on the goodwill of our EU neighbours,
which can no longer be taken for granted. Witness this quote from the Polish
Foreign Minister, Radoslaw Sikorski: "Please don't expect us to help you wreck
or paralyse the EU. Don't underestimate our determination not to return to the
politics of the 20th century. You were not occupied. Most of us on the Continent
were. We'll do almost anything to prevent it happening again."

Chris Mullin is a former Labour minister and the author of three volumes of
diaries, published by Profile

After this leap into the unknown we would still depend on the goodwill of Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: flying the flag David Cameron holds a joint press conference with
Angela Merkel in Berlin
KAY NIETFELD / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 14, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Erdogan enraged by EU rebuke over police violence

BYLINE: Alexander Christie-Miller

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 417 words


Turkey's relationship with the European Union was plunged into crisis yesterday
after the European Parliament passed a resolution "deploring" Recep Tayyip
Erdogan's handling of anti-government protests.

In a furious response from Ankara, the Turkish Prime Minister said: "I do not
recognise any decision made by the EU Parliament. Turkey is not an EU member."

The EU called for an investigation into police violence during the protests and
expressed "deep concern at the disproportionate and excessive use of force by
the police" during peaceful protests in Gezi Park, Istanbul.

Turkish ministers lined up behind Mr Erdogan to express outrage at the
statement. Turkey, a Nato member, has been negotiating to join the 27-nation
bloc since 2005, although talks have been at a virtual standstill for the past
three years.

Ahmet Davutoglu, the Foreign Minister, said the ruling was "unacceptable". He
told reporters in Ankara: "Turkey does not need to learn any lessons from any
country."

One prominent advocate of Turkey's EU membership said that relations between the
two were at a "dangerous" point. Richard Howitt, a Labour MEP, said: "I
sincerely hope this is just a bridging point, where Turkey as a country chooses
a democratic, Europe-oriented future." He added that Mr Erdogan's response to
the protests could sap support for Turkey's membership within the bloc.

Yesterday, as hundreds of demonstrators remained camped in Gezi Park, the
Government appeared to send mixed signals regarding its intentions.

In a televised speech, Mr Erdogan issued a "last warning" to the protesters.

"Gezi Park does not belong to occupying forces. It belongs to everybody," he
said. However, in the afternoon the city's governor insisted that police would
not intervene within the next 24 hours.

On Wednesday, Mr Erdogan aired the possibility of a referendum on the future of
the park after meeting a group of public figures described as "representatives"
of the protest movement, but who, in reality, appeared to have little connection
with it.

Demonstrators camped in Taksim yesterday poured scorn on the meeting.

"Some artists went to the Prime Minister's office but these are nothing to do
with us. We do not accept them and we haven't seen them here before," said Deniz
Yilmaz, 28.

She rejected the idea of a referendum.

"A court has decided to keep the park, but Erdogan is acting as if the courts
don't exist," she said, referring to a temporary suspension of the project by an
Istanbul court last month. Letters, page 29

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A protester in Gezi Park yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 14, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Erdogan enraged by EU rebuke over police violence;
Turkey

BYLINE: Alexander Christie-Miller

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 417 words


Turkey's relationship with the European Union was plunged into crisis yesterday
after the European Parliament passed a resolution "deploring" Recep Tayyip
Erdogan's handling of anti-government protests.

In a furious response from Ankara, the Turkish Prime Minister said: "I do not
recognise any decision made by the EU Parliament. Turkey is not an EU member."

The EU called for an investigation into police violence during the protests and
expressed "deep concern at the disproportionate and excessive use of force by
the police" during peaceful protests in Gezi Park, Istanbul.

Turkish ministers lined up behind Mr Erdogan to express outrage at the
statement. Turkey, a Nato member, has been negotiating to Join the 27-nation
bloc since 2005, although talks have been at a virtual standstill for the past
three years.

Ahmet Davutoglu, the Foreign Minister, said the ruling was "unacceptable". He
told reporters in Ankara: "Turkey does not need to learn any lessons from any
country."

One prominent advocate of Turkey's EU membership said that relations between the
two were at a "dangerous" point. Richard Howitt, a Labour MEP, said: "I
sincerely hope this is Just a bridging point, where Turkey as a country chooses
a democratic, Europe-oriented future." He added that Mr Erdogan's response to
the protests could sap support for Turkey's membership within the bloc.

Yesterday, as hundreds of demonstrators remained camped in Gezi Park, the
Government appeared to send mixed signals regarding its intentions. In a
televised speech, Mr Erdogan issued a "last warning" to the protesters. "Gezi
Park does not belong to occupying forces. It belongs to everybody," he said.
However, in the afternoon the city's governor insisted that police would not
intervene within the next 24 hours.

On Wednesday, Mr Erdogan aired the possibility of a referendum on the future of
the park after meeting a group of public figures described as "representatives"
of the protest movement, but who, in reality, appeared to have little connection
with it.

Demonstrators camped in Taksim yesterday poured scorn on the meeting."Some
artists went to the Prime Minister's office but these are nothing to do with us.
We do not accept them and we haven't seen them here before," said Deniz Yilmaz,
28.

She reJected the idea of a referendum. "A court has decided to keep the park,
but Erdogan is acting as if the courts don't exist," she said, referring to a
temporary suspension of the proJect by an Istanbul court last month.

Letters, page 29

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A protester in Gezi Park yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 14, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Erdogan enraged by EU rebuke over police violence

BYLINE: Alexander Christie-Miller

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 421 words


Turkey's relationship with the European Union was plunged into crisis yesterday
after the European Parliament passed a resolution "deploring" Recep Tayyip
Erdogan's handling of anti-government protests.

In a furious response from Ankara, the Turkish Prime Minister said: "I do not
recognise any decision made by the EU Parliament. Turkey is not an EU member."

The EU called for an investigation into police violence during the protests and
expressed "deep concern at the disproportionate and excessive use of force by
the police" during peaceful protests in Gezi Park, Istanbul.

Turkish ministers lined up behind Mr Erdogan to express outrage at the
statement. Turkey, a Nato member, has been negotiating to Join the 27-nation
bloc since 2005, although talks have been at a virtual standstill for the past
three years.

Ahmet Davutoglu, the Foreign Minister, said the ruling was "unacceptable". He
told reporters in Ankara: "Turkey does not need to learn any lessons from any
country."

One prominent advocate of Turkey's EU membership said that relations between the
two were at a "dangerous" point. Richard Howitt, a Labour MEP, said: "I
sincerely hope this is Just a bridging point, where Turkey as a country chooses
a democratic, Europe-oriented future." He added that Mr Erdogan's response to
the protests could sap support for Turkey's membership within the bloc.

Yesterday, as hundreds of demonstrators remained camped in Gezi Park, the
Government appeared to send mixed signals regarding its intentions.

In a televised speech, Mr Erdogan issued a "last warning" to the protesters.

"Gezi Park does not belong to occupying forces. It belongs to everybody," he
said. However, in the afternoon the city's governor insisted that police would
not intervene within the next 24 hours and Mr Erdogan later met representatives
of the protest movement. On Wednesday, he suggested that there could be a
referendum on the future of the park.

Deniz Yilmaz, 28, a demonstrator camped in Taksim Square, reJected the idea of a
referendum. "A court has decided to keep the park, but Erdogan is acting as if
the courts don't exist," she said, referring to a suspension of the proJect by
an Istanbul court last month.

Turkey's TV regulator announced it was shutting down a channel that gave
continual live coverage of the protests from an early stage. Hayat TV was to be
closed down "for broadcasting from abroad without a licence'" it said. Most
Turkish news channels initially ignored the nationwide protests that began two
weeks ago.

Letters, page 29

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A protester in Gezi Park yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UK seeks place in world. Partners welcome;
EU relations are shaky. We're frozen out of China. The Cabinet is split on
Syria. Cameron needs a good G8 ...

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1052 words


On Saturday Danny Boyle, David Beckham and Bill Gates addressed a rally of
45,000 people in Hyde Park. Supported by Justin Welby, the Archbishop of
Canterbury, they urged the Government to make tackling world hunger a focus of
the G8 summit this weekend. That would, the director of the Olympic opening
ceremony said, be "the greatest gold medal Britain could win in 2013".

David Cameron, meanwhile, was shut away in Downing Street, hosting a "nutrition
summit" but somehow strangely detached from the energy of the popular campaign.
Already the Government is talking down the chances of any breakthrough deals on
anti-corruption measures or tax avoidance at the G8 meeting at Lough Earne in
Northern Ireland. There has been a strangely muted build-up to this summit.

The contrast with the last time the UK held the presidency of the G8 could not
be starker. At Gleneagles in 2005 Tony Blair joined forces with Bob Geldof and
Bono to "Make Poverty History". There were pop concerts as well as policy
proposals in a carefully choreographed dance between politicians and
celebrities. The whole thing was high-profile, idealistic and, of course, risky
but there was no doubting the commitment. Eight years ago it was diplomacy as
showbiz. This time it risks turning into a talking shop in the tradition of the
theatre of the absurd.

There is inevitably a different mood for different economic times. But there may
also be a political explanation for the lack of clarity. As Sherlock Holmes
concluded in Silver Blaze, the "dog that does not bark" reveals a truth. Mr
Cameron has still not found his answer to the problem that Britain has lost an
empire and not yet found a role.

Yesterday the Prime Minister tried to address this unresolved ambiguity. "To
succeed, it's no use hiding away from the world - we've got to roll up our
sleeves and compete in it," he told an audience of businessmen in Essex. He
promised to maintain Britain's status as "the small island with the big
footprint in the world". It is still unclear, though, where his loyalties lie.
He talks a lot about Britain being involved in a global race but this is not
just a solo sprint, it is a relay, and he seems uncertain whose team he is on.
According to one insider, the bilateral meeting he thought most successful was
with Vladimir Putin, an unreliable ally at best.

In his speech Mr Cameron restated his commitment to the EU, as well as the UN,
the Commonwealth, Nato and the G8: "Membership of these organisations is not
national vanity, it is in our national interest," he said. But by promising to
hold an in/out referendum on Britain's membership of the EU, he has raised
doubts about the country's future in Europe. In Paris and Berlin, as well as
Brussels, a weakening of the UK's ties with the Continent is now seen as
inevitable. I was intrigued to be told by one German diplomat recently that,
although Angela Merkel would be sorry to see Britain leave the EU, she would not
die in a ditch to save Mr Cameron in a referendum campaign.

"In the end, if it's one partner against many other partners that are closer to
us geographically, it would be clear to us where our allegiances lie," he said.

While there has been a cooling of relations between the UK and other EU member
states, the Government has not done enough to build alternative alliances. The
man accused of running a chumocracy at home has not made enough friends abroad.

The Prime Minister has talked of the commercial and diplomatic importance of
China. Last month he emphasised that he wants the UK to be "the destination for
Chinese investment". And yet, although François Hollande was greeted with a
21-gun salute in Beijing, Mr Cameron has been barred from visiting China because
the administration is still smarting from his decision to meet the Dalai Lama.

In his new book Turning to Face the East, the Labour frontbencher Liam Byrne
argues that Britain is falling behind other countries in the Chinese market,
even though China's Ambassador to London has described this as the "land of
thinkers" that should be emulated. Already 47 per cent of European exports to
China are from Germany, seven times more than from the UK.

There are mixed messages across Whitehall. The Treasury is working hard to get
money from Beijing to fund infrastructure projects and the Department of Health
has held talks with the Chinese Government about the possibility of setting up a
version of the NHS. But in other parts of the government machine the Chinese
dragon is seen not as an opportunity but a threat. One senior source at the Home
Office describes the involvement of Chinese firms in the UK telecoms industry
and potential investment in nuclear power stations as "very worrying", with
"implications for national security that have not been properly thought
through".

Of course, international relations are rarely clear cut - even supposedly
"ethical" foreign policies are tarnished by a few years of difficult choices.
But in the coalition ambiguities abound. Mr Cameron identified India as a key
potential ally for Britain - then on his first trade mission there was told that
his immigration policy was in fact hampering the growth of business links. The
concerns on the Tory backbenches about the possibility of arming the Syrian
rebels reflects a deep divide higher up between Conservative Cabinet ministers
about a drift towards liberal interventionism.

Although the Prime Minister has stuck bravely to his commitment to maintain
spending on international aid, he is reluctant to boast about it because that
risks annoying rightwingers on his backbenches. Meanwhile, the "special
relationship"with the US has been put under pressure by recent revelations about
surveillance operations.

One Tory minister says: "With Thatcher you knew exactly where her loyalties lay;
when Blair was in No 10 there was a clear agenda. On many international issues
it's hard to know what Cameron's view really is. He is convivial and likeable on
the diplomatic circuit - but to what purpose?" At the G8 summit this weekend,
the Prime Minister has a chance to show his idealism as well as his pragmatism
on the global stage. He must seize it, for Britain's sake as well as his own.

The man who runs a chumocracy has a lack of friends abroad

India said the UK's immigration policy was hampering business

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Showbiz diplomacy: Gleneagles was a dance between politicians and
celebrities
RICHARD LEWIS/CROWN COPYRIGHT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK seeks place in world. Partners welcome;
EU relations are shaky. We're frozen out of China. The Cabinet is split on
Syria. Cameron needs a good G8 ...

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1052 words


On Saturday Danny Boyle, David Beckham and Bill Gates addressed a rally of
45,000 people in Hyde Park. Supported by Justin Welby, the Archbishop of
Canterbury, they urged the Government to make tackling world hunger a focus of
the G8 summit this weekend. That would, the director of the Olympic opening
ceremony said, be "the greatest gold medal Britain could win in 2013".

David Cameron, meanwhile, was shut away in Downing Street, hosting a "nutrition
summit" but somehow strangely detached from the energy of the popular campaign.
Already the Government is talking down the chances of any breakthrough deals on
anti-corruption measures or tax avoidance at the G8 meeting at Lough Earne in
Northern Ireland. There has been a strangely muted build-up to this summit.

The contrast with the last time the UK held the presidency of the G8 could not
be starker. At Gleneagles in 2005 Tony Blair joined forces with Bob Geldof and
Bono to "Make Poverty History". There were pop concerts as well as policy
proposals in a carefully choreographed dance between politicians and
celebrities. The whole thing was high-profile, idealistic and, of course, risky
but there was no doubting the commitment. Eight years ago it was diplomacy as
showbiz. This time it risks turning into a talking shop in the tradition of the
theatre of the absurd.

There is inevitably a different mood for different economic times. But there may
also be a political explanation for the lack of clarity. As Sherlock Holmes
concluded in Silver Blaze, the "dog that does not bark" reveals a truth. Mr
Cameron has still not found his answer to the problem that Britain has lost an
empire and not yet found a role.

Yesterday the Prime Minister tried to address this unresolved ambiguity. "To
succeed, it's no use hiding away from the world - we've got to roll up our
sleeves and compete in it," he told an audience of businessmen in Essex. He
promised to maintain Britain's status as "the small island with the big
footprint in the world". It is still unclear, though, where his loyalties lie.
He talks a lot about Britain being involved in a global race but this is not
just a solo sprint, it is a relay, and he seems uncertain whose team he is on.
According to one insider, the bilateral meeting he thought most successful was
with Vladimir Putin, an unreliable ally at best.

In his speech Mr Cameron restated his commitment to the EU, as well as the UN,
the Commonwealth, Nato and the G8: "Membership of these organisations is not
national vanity, it is in our national interest," he said. But by promising to
hold an in/out referendum on Britain's membership of the EU, he has raised
doubts about the country's future in Europe. In Paris and Berlin, as well as
Brussels, a weakening of the UK's ties with the Continent is now seen as
inevitable. I was intrigued to be told by one German diplomat recently that,
although Angela Merkel would be sorry to see Britain leave the EU, she would not
die in a ditch to save Mr Cameron in a referendum campaign.

"In the end, if it's one partner against many other partners that are closer to
us geographically, it would be clear to us where our allegiances lie," he said.

While there has been a cooling of relations between the UK and other EU member
states, the Government has not done enough to build alternative alliances. The
man accused of running a chumocracy at home has not made enough friends abroad.

The Prime Minister has talked of the commercial and diplomatic importance of
China. Last month he emphasised that he wants the UK to be "the destination for
Chinese investment". And yet, although François Hollande was greeted with a
21-gun salute in Beijing, Mr Cameron has been barred from visiting China because
the administration is still smarting from his decision to meet the Dalai Lama.

In his new book Turning to Face the East, the Labour frontbencher Liam Byrne
argues that Britain is falling behind other countries in the Chinese market,
even though China's Ambassador to London has described this as the "land of
thinkers" that should be emulated. Already 47 per cent of European exports to
China are from Germany, seven times more than from the UK.

There are mixed messages across Whitehall. The Treasury is working hard to get
money from Beijing to fund infrastructure projects and the Department of Health
has held talks with the Chinese Government about the possibility of setting up a
version of the NHS. But in other parts of the government machine the Chinese
dragon is seen not as an opportunity but a threat. One senior source at the Home
Office describes the involvement of Chinese firms in the UK telecoms industry
and potential investment in nuclear power stations as "very worrying", with
"implications for national security that have not been properly thought
through".

Of course, international relations are rarely clear cut - even supposedly
"ethical" foreign policies are tarnished by a few years of difficult choices.
But in the coalition ambiguities abound. Mr Cameron identified India as a key
potential ally for Britain - then on his first trade mission there was told that
his immigration policy was in fact hampering the growth of business links. The
concerns on the Tory backbenches about the possibility of arming the Syrian
rebels reflects a deep divide higher up between Conservative Cabinet ministers
about a drift towards liberal interventionism.

Although the Prime Minister has stuck bravely to his commitment to maintain
spending on international aid, he is reluctant to boast about it because that
risks annoying rightwingers on his backbenches. Meanwhile, the "special
relationship"with the US has been put under pressure by recent revelations about
surveillance operations.

One Tory minister says: "With Thatcher you knew exactly where her loyalties lay;
when Blair was in No 10 there was a clear agenda. On many international issues
it's hard to know what Cameron's view really is. He is convivial and likeable on
the diplomatic circuit - but to what purpose?" At the G8 summit this weekend,
the Prime Minister has a chance to show his idealism as well as his pragmatism
on the global stage. He must seize it, for Britain's sake as well as his own.

The man who runs a chumocracy has a lack of friends abroad

India said the UK's immigration policy was hampering business

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Showbiz diplomacy: Gleneagles was a dance between politicians and
celebrities
RICHARD LEWIS/CROWN COPYRIGHT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 4, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MPs demand tougher rules on migration

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 328 words


European rules must be torn up to ease fears over "benefit tourism", an
influential group of Tory MPs will say today. David Cameron has already
attempted to head off concerns of a fresh wave of migration from Bulgaria and
Romania next year by saying that anyone arriving in Britain will not receive
benefits if they remain unemployed after six months.

However, a new report by the Fresh Start Group, which contains prominent Tory
MPs from the 2010 intake, warned that a series of EU directives must be
renegotiated to enable Britain to put even tougher safeguards in place.
Romanians and Bulgarians will be free to find work in Britain from next year,
when EU restrictions on their movement come to an end.

The Fresh Start Group, which includes the Tory MPs Andrea Leadsom and Priti
Patel, said that workers should be forced to provide more evidence that they had
work or were self-sufficient before arriving in Britain.

It added that some benefits should only be paid to those who had "contributed a
significant amount to that state's system" and that the Government should be
allowed to claim back any benefits from a recipient's home country if they had
not paid into the British social security system.

It is a sign of the huge expectations that Mr Cameron will face as he attempts
to broker a "new relationship" with Brussels ahead of an in-out EU referendum in
2017.

The fresh demands also come as a leading pro-European minister warns that other
Tory Europhiles must waste no time in making the case for staying in the EU.

Damian Green, the Police Minister, will use a speech today to warn that staying
silent for too long could lead to disaster. "For those of us sympathetic to the
European argument this is an opportunity to make our case," he will say.

"For too long only a few lonely voices in the Conservative Party have made the
case that we are better off in. Those of us who hold that view cannot wait for
the few weeks before a referendum to argue our corner."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andrea Leadsom wants tests for foreign workers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 4, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MPs demand tougher rules on migration

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 328 words


European rules must be torn up to ease fears over "benefit tourism", an
influential group of Tory MPs will say today. David Cameron has already
attempted to head off concerns of a fresh wave of migration from Bulgaria and
Romania next year by saying that anyone arriving in Britain will not receive
benefits if they remain unemployed after six months.

However, a new report by the Fresh Start Group, which contains prominent Tory
MPs from the 2010 intake, warned that a series of EU directives must be
renegotiated to enable Britain to put even tougher safeguards in place.
Romanians and Bulgarians will be free to find work in Britain from next year,
when EU restrictions on their movement come to an end.

The Fresh Start Group, which includes the Tory MPs Andrea Leadsom and Priti
Patel, said that workers should be forced to provide more evidence that they had
work or were self-sufficient before arriving in Britain.

It added that some benefits should only be paid to those who had "contributed a
significant amount to that state's system" and that the Government should be
allowed to claim back any benefits from a recipient's home country if they had
not paid into the British social security system.

It is a sign of the huge expectations that Mr Cameron will face as he attempts
to broker a "new relationship" with Brussels ahead of an in-out EU referendum in
2017.

The fresh demands also come as a leading pro-European minister warns that other
Tory Europhiles must waste no time in making the case for staying in the EU.

Damian Green, the Police Minister, will use a speech today to warn that staying
silent for too long could lead to disaster. "For those of us sympathetic to the
European argument this is an opportunity to make our case," he will say.

"For too long only a few lonely voices in the Conservative Party have made the
case that we are better off in. Those of us who hold that view cannot wait for
the few weeks before a referendum to argue our corner."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andrea Leadsom wants tests for foreign workers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 4, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MPs demand tougher rules on migration

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 327 words


European rules must be torn up to ease fears over "benefit tourism", an
influential group of Tory MPs will say today. David Cameron has already
attempted to head off concerns of a fresh wave of migration from Bulgaria and
Romania next year by saying that anyone arriving in Britain will not receive
benefits if they remain unemployed after six months.

However, a new report by the Fresh Start Group, which contains prominent Tory
MPs from the 2010 intake, warned that a series of EU directives must be
renegotiated to enable Britain to put even tougher safeguards in place.
Romanians and Bulgarians will be free to find work in Britain from next year,
when EU restrictions on their movement come to an end.

The Fresh Start Group, which includes the Tory MPs Andrea Leadsom and Priti
Patel, said that workers should be forced to provide more evidence that they had
work or were self-sufficient before arriving in Britain.

It added that some benefits should only be paid to those who had "contributed a
significant amount to that state's system" and that the Government should be
allowed to claim back any benefits from a recipient's home country if they had
not paid into the British social security system.

It is a sign of the huge expectations that Mr Cameron will face as he attempts
to broker a "new relationship" with Brussels before an in-out EU referendum in
2017.

The fresh demands also come as a leading pro-European minister warns that other
Tory Europhiles must waste no time in making the case for staying in the EU.

Damian Green, the Police Minister, will use a speech today to warn that staying
silent for too long could lead to disaster. "For those of us sympathetic to the
European argument this is an opportunity to make our case," he will say.

"For too long only a few lonely voices in the Conservative Party have made the
case that we are better off in. Those of us who hold that view cannot wait for
the few weeks before a referendum to argue our corner."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andrea Leadsom wants tests for foreign workers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 3, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Brain injury will not stop me running for MEP, says Cracknell

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 327 words


He has won two Olympic gold medals, rowed naked across the Atlantic and survived
a crash with a petrol tanker while cycling across America which left him with a
serious brain injury.

Now James Cracknell faces the ultimate ordeal - the prospect of political life
in Brussels. The rower and adventurer announced yesterday that he hopes to stand
as a Conservative candidate in next year's European Parliament elections. He is
on a six-strong shortlist to be a candidate in the South West constituency.

He accepted that there would be questions over whether he was fit for political
office after the brain injury left him suffering memory loss, a short temper and
bouts of aggression.

"I ask myself that, but I don't want to live in a society where people impose
ceilings on you," he said at the Hay Festival yesterday.

"We should not be setting ourselves those sorts of limits. If I make a bad
politician so be it, but it could quite easily be that I would have made a bad
politician before the accident."

Cracknell, 41, said he did not believe his injury would affect his ability to be
an MEP. "The brain injury was one day, it is not going to define the rest of my
life," he said. He added that he had been considering entering politics before
being hit by the petrol tanker in July 2010.

He and his wife, Beverley Turner, who live with their three children in West
London, have described the impact of his physical and psychological injuries in
their book Touching Distance. Cracknell said that the first two years after his
accident had been spent "getting back the cognitive ability, to multi-task, to
plan, to organise, to handle complex things".

Cracknell said that he fully supported David Cameron's bid to renegotiate the
terms of EU membership, which he believes could be supported by Germany, and
lead to a referendum.

"If the negotiations don't work out, I'm sure there will be a massive campaign
for a 'no', but until that happens we have to support him," he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Cracknell: "Injury is not going to define my life"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 3, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brain injury will not stop me running for MEP, says Cracknell

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 327 words


He has won two Olympic gold medals, rowed naked across the Atlantic and survived
a crash with a petrol tanker while cycling across America which left him with a
serious brain injury.

Now James Cracknell faces the ultimate ordeal - the prospect of political life
in Brussels. The rower and adventurer announced yesterday that he hopes to stand
as a Conservative candidate in next year's European Parliament elections. He is
on a six-strong shortlist to be a candidate in the South West constituency.

He accepted that there would be questions over whether he was fit for political
office after the brain injury left him suffering memory loss, a short temper and
bouts of aggression.

"I ask myself that, but I don't want to live in a society where people impose
ceilings on you," he said at the Hay Festival yesterday.

"We should not be setting ourselves those sorts of limits. If I make a bad
politician so be it, but it could quite easily be that I would have made a bad
politician before the accident."

Cracknell, 41, said he did not believe his injury would affect his ability to be
an MEP. "The brain injury was one day, it is not going to define the rest of my
life," he said. He added that he had been considering entering politics before
being hit by the petrol tanker in July 2010.

He and his wife, Beverley Turner, who live with their three children in West
London, have described the impact of his physical and psychological injuries in
their book Touching Distance. Cracknell said that the first two years after his
accident had been spent "getting back the cognitive ability, to multi-task, to
plan, to organise, to handle complex things".

Cracknell said that he fully supported David Cameron's bid to renegotiate the
terms of EU membership, which he believes could be supported by Germany, and
lead to a referendum.

"If the negotiations don't work out, I'm sure there will be a massive campaign
for a 'no', but until that happens we have to support him," he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Cracknell: "Injury is not going to define my life"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 1, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAITLIN MORAN;
'I realise I'm doing lengths in the middle of a massive societal metaphor'

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 801 words


I've recently swapped running for swimming - my knees are going, and, unused, my
arms were starting to get string-like and disproportionate, like a T. rex.

In all, it's been a pleasant return to the pool. As a keen childhood swimmer, I
easily slipped back into the customs of the place - thoughtfully removing the
Tribble-like lump of hair from the shower drains, in order to make showering
more agreeable for the next user, and eating a whole packet of crisps on the bus
on the way home, because I'm starving.

Indeed, there has been only one floating verruca plaster in the otherwise serene
waters of my joy: "medium".

My local pool has three lanes. These are clearly, labelled thus: "Slow",
"Medium" and "Fast". In the Slow lane, adult learner swimmers bob around on
noodles, laughing their heads off. In the Fast lane, meanwhile, three men in
tiny trunks speed up and down, giving the impression that they are swimming to a
very important business meeting and must not be disturbed. And in the Medium
lane - everyone else in Haringey, a million people, all packed together, in
Medium soup.

The problem is this: only ten of those people should actually be in the Medium
lane, tops. Believe me, I've swum behind all of them, and people, your
breaststroke is no Medium. There are people on the International Space Station
decanting cold treacle out of tins showing more hustle. You are a SLOW. Your
spirit animal is the SLOWTH.

This is not a personal evaluation from me. I would merely draw your attention to
the sign at each end of the lane: "MEDIUM: lengths in 28 seconds or less".

It's there on the board: the official definition of "Medium". And yet, everyone
swimming slowly in the Medium lane absolutely ignores it - because they "feel"
Medium, inside, instead, and that's what really counts, to them. They just want
to be Medium, despite all the facts.

Exactly the same thing happens on the motorway. Slow lane: empty, save the odd
Polish artic. Fast lane: three men angrily swarming towards a meeting in
Donington at 101mph. Middle lane: 50 million people in a terrifying, tailgating
Medium soup, all the way from London to Birmingham, because they "feel"
middle-lane-ish, despite all the facts.

Because, in this country, everyone wants to be a Medium. We all feel Medium. If
I were to choose just one thing that defined "Englishness", it would be that. We
want to say that we are in the middle. Indeed, the English love Medium so much
that we put a moral value on it.

Being in the middle - neither excessive nor spare; neither too loud nor too
quiet; too clever or too stupid; too flash or too dowdy - is the "right" thing
to be. Think of all the things we trust the most: John Lewis, gently rolling
countryside, the middle classes, Radio 2. We love a happy medium. We feel most
comfortable when we're bang in the centre. Even if, really, we're not. Even if
we're eccentric or brilliant or broken or different or angry or pioneering or
evil or half-asleep - we all like to think we're just like everyone else.
Wherever we are, that must be the centre. Whatever we are is normal and
reasonable and right.

And so, inevitably, to the bit where, in my swimming costume, reeking of
chlorine, already thinking about the crisps, I realise I'm actually doing
lengths in the middle of a massive societal metaphor.

I'm looking at the pool - at all the stubborn people in the Medium lane,
agonisingly slower than "28 seconds per length". Women who've come down with a
couple of friends, and are all swimming a slow breaststroke together, convinced
that they are Medium, even as faster swimmers pile up behind them, or stop
entirely, in frustration.

And I think, "Oh my God - this is British politics! The Medium lane is the
'middle ground'! The Libs and the Labs and the Cons all claiming they are right
in the middle, they are the normal ones, they are average. Even with a
referendum on the EU, and privatising the NHS, and cutting welfare, and
university fees - they all still claim the middle ground. None of the three big
parties would ever say they were being radical, or innovative, or different.
None of them will ever move out of the Medium lane, whatever speed or stroke
they're doing."

And I watch the people who are naturally "Medium" - who really do swim a length
in 28 seconds or less - getting frustrated with this bastardised Medium lane and
ducking under the lane separators. Some going left and harassing the "Slow"
swimmers. Some going right and getting in the way of the "Fast" swimmers. And
some getting out of the pool completely.

And I think about Nigel Farage, the riots two summers ago, and declining voter
turnouts, and how dry this pool is making my hair.

And I think: "Medium" does mean something. You can't just claim it if you want
it. It means "28 seconds per length".

caitlin.moran@thetimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPIROS POLITIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tories rally troops for referendum Bill

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 205 words


David Cameron continued a charm offensive towards the Conservative grassroots
last night by setting out his gameplan for enshrining an EU referendum in law.

Grant Shapps, the party chairman, wrote to the chairmen of Conservative
associations to explain that an "historic vote" in the Commons would take place
on Friday, July 5. He asked local chairmen to "understand the absence" of their
MPs on a day that they would usually spend in their constituencies.

In a frenzy of Euroscepticism in the wake of the Queen's Speech, 114 Tory MPs
defied the Prime Minister to back a call for a legal commitment to an in/out
referendum. No 10 took the unusual step of publishing a draft Bill to be brought
forward by a backbencher in a Private Member's Bill. After coming top of the
Private Members' Bill ballot, James Wharton pledged to adopt the draft
legislation, which would require an in/out referendum by the end of 2017.

William Hague wrote to MPs last night pledging to use "every mechanism
available" to try to get the legislation through. He asked MPs to clear their
diaries for a string of Fridays, when backbench Bill debates take place.

But even with a three-line whip and support from some Labour MPs, the Bill is
unlikely to become law.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 27, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory defectors will 'give UKIP victory in European election'

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 587 words


UKIP will storm to victory in next year's European elections with the help of
two fifths of Tory voters, according to a new poll.

David Cameron is predicted to come third behind Labour and Nigel Farage's anti-
EU party, which the Open Europe poll suggests will have 27 per cent of the vote.

In a rare boost for the Prime Minister, the survey reveals widespread support
for his strategy of reforming Britain's relationship with Brussels. But this
will not be enough for him to hang on to voters next May, with the Tories
expected to poll only 21 per cent, and Labour in second place on 23 per cent.

A senior Tory backbencher warned yesterday that the elections of MEPs could
prove a "flashpoint" for Mr Cameron and said that he had 12 months to make his
EU strategy work.

David Ruffley, a former party whip, said that MPs in marginal seats would be
unsettled by a strong UKIP showing.

"I think [the elections] might put pressure on him to go harder because there is
a lot of speculation in and around Downing Street, so I am led to believe, that
UKIP might come first," he said. "Now, if that happens next May, there'll be 12
months before the election and some of our colleagues in marginal seats might
get a bit windy."

A fortnight of Tory mutiny over gay marriage, Europe and the claim that a senior
party figure described grassroots activists as "swivel-eyed loons" was brought
to an end by the killing of a soldier in London on Wednesday, but MPs remain
deeply concerned about their party's prospects for 2015.

While Tory strategists predict that a wave of support for UKIP will peak at the
European elections, MPs fear that the party will split the right-wing vote at
the next general election, helping Labour to victory in marginal seats and
denying the Conservatives a majority.

Nadine Dorries, who has recently had the party whip restored after months in the
wilderness, said that there was a case for some Tory MPs to team up with UKIP in
2015 to neutralise its threat. Mr Farage revealed in an interview with The
Sunday Times that he could envisage coming to such an agreement with "around 20"
of Mr Cameron's MPs.

Meanwhile, a former Conservative Party treasurer became the latest in a string
of Tory donors to announce their interest in UKIP. Lord Kalms, formerly boss of
the Dixons electricals chain, said that he was willing "to pack my bags" if Mr
Cameron did not take a tougher stance towards Brussels.

When those polled by Open Europe, a Eurosceptic think-tank, were asked to select
the best option for the future of Britain's relationship with Europe, the most
popular response reflected Mr Cameron's stated strategy: 38 per cent approved of
repatriating powers from Brussels but remaining in the EU. One in four wanted to
withdraw completely.

No more than 61 per cent of UKIP voters said that they wanted Britain to pull
out altogether, suggesting that Mr Farage's party is profiting from discontent
on a wide range of issues, rather than on Europe alone. Liberal Democrat and
Labour voters also backed Mr Cameron, suggesting that Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg
could find themselves out of touch with their supporters if they maintain their
opposition to an EU referendum. Writing in the Sunday Mirror, Lord Prescott, the
former Deputy Prime Minister, urged Mr Miliband to call for an immediate in/out
referendum to "shoot Cameron's fox".

Voting intentions in European elections, May 2014 UKIP Others 11% Lib Dem 27%
18% 23% 21% Labour Conservative Source: Open Europe/ComRes (based on 2,003
adults surveyed, May 22-24)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 27, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory defectors will 'give UKIP victory in European election'

BYLINE: Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 586 words


UKIP will storm to victory in next year's European elections with the help of
two fifths of Tory voters, according to a new poll.

David Cameron is predicted to come third behind Labour and Nigel Farage's anti-
EU party, which the Open Europe poll suggests will have 27 per cent of the vote.

In a rare boost for the Prime Minister, the survey reveals widespread support
for his strategy of reforming Britain's relationship with Brussels. But this
will not be enough for him to hang on to voters next May, with the Tories
expected to poll only 21 per cent, and Labour in second place on 23 per cent.

A senior Tory backbencher warned yesterday that the elections of MEPs could
prove a "flashpoint" for Mr Cameron and said that he had 12 months to make his
EU strategy work.

David Ruffley, a former party whip, said that MPs in marginal seats would be
unsettled by a strong UKIP showing. "I think [the elections] might put pressure
on him to go harder because there is a lot of speculation in and around Downing
Street, so I am led to believe, that UKIP might come first," he said. "Now, if
that happens next May, there'll be 12 months before the election and some of our
colleagues in marginal seats might get a bit windy."

A fortnight of Tory mutiny over gay marriage, Europe and the claim that a senior
party figure described grassroots activists as "swivel-eyed loons" was brought
to an end by the killing of a soldier in London on Wednesday, but MPs remain
deeply concerned about their party's prospects for 2015.

While Tory strategists predict that a wave of support for UKIP will peak at the
European elections, MPs fear that the party will split the right-wing vote at
the next general election, helping Labour to victory in marginal seats and
denying the Conservatives a majority.

Nadine Dorries, who has recently had the party whip restored after months in the
wilderness, said that there was a case for some Tory MPs to team up with UKIP in
2015 to neutralise its threat. Mr Farage revealed in an interview with The
Sunday Times that he could envisage coming to such an agreement with "around 20"
of Mr Cameron's MPs.

Meanwhile, a former Conservative Party treasurer became the latest in a string
of Tory donors to announce their interest in UKIP. Lord Kalms, formerly boss of
the Dixons electricals chain, said that he was willing "to pack my bags" if Mr
Cameron did not take a tougher stance towards Brussels.

When those polled by Open Europe, a Eurosceptic think-tank, were asked to select
the best option for the future of Britain's relationship with Europe, the most
popular response reflected Mr Cameron's stated strategy: 38 per cent approved of
repatriating powers from Brussels but remaining in the EU. One in four wanted to
withdraw completely.

No more than 61 per cent of UKIP voters said that they wanted Britain to pull
out altogether, suggesting that Mr Farage's party is profiting from discontent
on a wide range of issues, rather than on Europe alone. Liberal Democrat and
Labour voters also backed Mr Cameron, suggesting that Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg
could find themselves out of touch with their supporters if they maintain their
opposition to an EU referendum. Writing in the Sunday Mirror, Lord Prescott, the
former Deputy Prime Minister, urged Mr Miliband to call for an immediate in/out
referendum to "shoot Cameron's fox".

Voting intentions in European elections, May 2014

UKIP  27%

Others 11%

Lib Dem 18%

Labour 23% Conservative  21%

Source: Open Europe/ComRes (based on 2,003 adults surveyed, May 22-24)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

The Germans are coming and we're happy to see them

BYLINE: Roger Boyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 520 words


By bus and by ferry, by Eurostar and by Lufthansa, the Germans invaded a wet
London in their thousands yesterday to do battle at Wembley.

The pretext was tonight's Champions League final between two German sides,
Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund, but it became clear pretty quickly that
these fans in their silly hats were ambassadors for the newly cozy relationship
between the English and the Germans.

"English people are calling out to us all the time, 'Good Luck!', and 'Well
done!' and 'Give us a good match!', said a Dortmund fan, Andrew Maehler, 26, who
is part of a group that had trekked not from the team's heartland near the Dutch
border but from the more distant parts of southern Germany and Switzerland.

So here's a surprise: we quite like being invaded.

Especially, it seems, by the Germans. "They always clean up their rubbish after
themselves," said a waste disposal operative outside the stadium. "They know
what goes in what sack."

But this is more than a new-found admiration for German orderliness. There is a
real love duet going on.

Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, was at it again this week, praising
German-style industrial policy as he opened a UK branch of the Fraunhofer,
Europe's biggest applied research organisation.

Elsewhere, the Labour peer Lord Glasman has just called for a vision of Europe
that, along German lines, "involves the strengthening of decentralised
institutions, cities, universities, vocational colleges, regional banks and
community-owned football clubs".

A Pew opinion survey this month showed that the British considered the Germans
to be the most trustworthy in Europe. And unlike most of the polled Europeans,
we consider the French, and not the Germans, to be the most arrogant on the
Continent.

David Cameron gets on well with Angela Merkel; there is an admiration for her
austerity policies, her good housekeeping, her reluctance to boo Britain off the
stage for openly contemplating an In/Out referendum. Bild - the German tabloid
with a nose for the zeitgeist - recently argued that Britain should stay in the
European Union because of its sense of humour, the royals and its punk style.

Breaking a post-war tradition of mocking the Germans, The Sun responded by
giving reasons to love the Germans. In no particular order: the supermodel
Claudia Schiffer, BMWs and the Oktoberfest. Cross-national love affairs don't
get more torrid than that. For the British, an all-German football final in
London has the advantage, said Peter Mondeel, a long-distance lorry driver
yesterday "that you will get to see, for sure, a German team lose".

But, of course, an all-German final also prompts the question of why there isn't
an English team in the stadium.

Bayern has an average ticket price of £35. The cheapest price at Wembley was £60
but now cost over £1,000 on eBay and even more from the professional touts. Yet
again, the Germans are doing something right. They've got the designer kitchens,
they've got the big-beast cars and today they've got the Wembley turf all to
themselves.

The big news is that we are no longer envious. We just want to find out how they
do it.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The beers will be flowing at the German-themed Katzenjammer bar in
London this weekend, as fans of Bayern Munich, left, get ready for the final at
Wembley
ROB STOTHARD / TIMES / CANON YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE YEAR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Germans are coming and we're happy to see them

BYLINE: Roger Boyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 520 words


By bus and by ferry, by Eurostar and by Lufthansa, the Germans invaded a wet
London in their thousands yesterday to do battle at Wembley.

The pretext was tonight's Champions League final between two German sides,
Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund, but it became clear pretty quickly that
these fans in their silly hats were ambassadors for the newly cozy relationship
between the English and the Germans.

"English people are calling out to us all the time, 'Good Luck!', and 'Well
done!' and 'Give us a good match!', said a Dortmund fan, Andrew Maehler, 26, who
is part of a group that had trekked not from the team's heartland near the Dutch
border but from the more distant parts of southern Germany and Switzerland.

So here's a surprise: we quite like being invaded.

Especially, it seems, by the Germans. "They always clean up their rubbish after
themselves," said a waste disposal operative outside the stadium. "They know
what goes in what sack."

But this is more than a new-found admiration for German orderliness. There is a
real love duet going on.

Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, was at it again this week, praising
German-style industrial policy as he opened a UK branch of the Fraunhofer,
Europe's biggest applied research organisation.

Elsewhere, the Labour peer Lord Glasman has just called for a vision of Europe
that, along German lines, "involves the strengthening of decentralised
institutions, cities, universities, vocational colleges, regional banks and
community-owned football clubs".

A Pew opinion survey this month showed that the British considered the Germans
to be the most trustworthy in Europe. And unlike most of the polled Europeans,
we consider the French, and not the Germans, to be the most arrogant on the
Continent.

David Cameron gets on well with Angela Merkel; there is an admiration for her
austerity policies, her good housekeeping, her reluctance to boo Britain off the
stage for openly contemplating an In/Out referendum. Bild - the German tabloid
with a nose for the zeitgeist - recently argued that Britain should stay in the
European Union because of its sense of humour, the royals and its punk style.

Breaking a post-war tradition of mocking the Germans, The Sun responded by
giving reasons to love the Germans. In no particular order: the supermodel
Claudia Schiffer, BMWs and the Oktoberfest. Cross-national love affairs don't
get more torrid than that. For the British, an all-German football final in
London has the advantage, said Peter Mondeel, a long-distance lorry driver
yesterday "that you will get to see, for sure, a German team lose".

But, of course, an all-German final also prompts the question of why there isn't
an English team in the stadium.

Bayern has an average ticket price of £35. The cheapest price at Wembley was £60
but now cost over £1,000 on eBay and even more from the professional touts. Yet
again, the Germans are doing something right. They've got the designer kitchens,
they've got the big-beast cars and today they've got the Wembley turf all to
themselves.

The big news is that we are no longer envious. We just want to find out how they
do it.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The beers will be flowing at the German-themed Katzenjammer bar in
London this weekend, as fans of Bayern Munich, left, get ready for the final at
Wembley
ROB STOTHARD / TIMES / CANON YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE YEAR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The Germans are coming and we're happy to see them

BYLINE: Roger Boyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 517 words


By bus and by ferry, by Eurostar and by Lufthansa, the Germans invaded a wet
London in their thousands yesterday to do battle at Wembley.

The pretext was tonight's Champions League final between two German sides,
Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund, but it became clear pretty quickly that
these fans in their silly hats were ambassadors for the newly cozy relationship
between the English and the Germans.

"English people are calling out to us all the time, 'Good Luck!', and 'Well
done!' and 'Give us a good match!', said a Dortmund fan, Andrew Maehler, 26, who
is part of a group that had trekked not from the team's heartland near the Dutch
border but from the more distant parts of southern Germany and Switzerland.

So here's a surprise: we quite like being invaded.

Especially, it seems, by the Germans. "They always clean up their rubbish after
themselves," said a waste disposal operative outside the stadium. "They know
what goes in what sack."

But this is more than a new-found admiration for German orderliness. There is a
real love duet going on.

Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, was at it again this week, praising
German-style industrial policy as he opened a UK branch of the Fraunhofer,
Europe's biggest applied research organisation.

Elsewhere, the Labour peer Lord Glasman has just called for a vision of Europe
that, along German lines, "involves the strengthening of decentralised
institutions, cities, universities, vocational colleges, regional banks and
community-owned football clubs".

A Pew opinion survey this month showed that the British considered the Germans
to be the most trustworthy in Europe. And unlike most of the polled Europeans,
we consider the French, and not the Germans, to be the most arrogant on the
Continent.

David Cameron gets on well with Angela Merkel; there is an admiration for her
austerity policies, her good housekeeping, her reluctance to boo Britain off the
stage for openly contemplating an in/out referendum. Bild - the German tabloid
with a nose for the zeitgeist - recently argued that Britain should stay in the
European Union because of its sense of humour, the royals and its punk style.

Breaking a postwar tradition of mocking the Germans, The Sun responded by
listing reasons to love them. In no particular order: the supermodel Claudia
Schiffer, BMWs and the Oktoberfest.

Cross-national love affairs don't get more torrid than that.

For the British, an all-German football final in London has the advantage, said
Peter Mondeel, a long-distance lorry driver, "that you will get to see, for
sure, a German team lose".

But, of course, an all-German final also prompts the question of why there isn't
an English team in the stadium.

Bayern has an average ticket price of £35. The cheapest price at Wembley was £60
but now cost over £1,000 on eBay and even more from the professional touts. Yet
again, the Germans are doing something right. They've got the designer kitchens,
they've got the big-beast cars and today they've got the Wembley turf all to
themselves.

The big news is that we are no longer envious. We just want to find out how they
do it.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The beer will be flowing at the German-themed Katzenjammer bar in
London this weekend, as fans of Bayern Munich, left, visit for the final at
Wembley
ROB STOTHARD / TIMES / CANON YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE YEAR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Clegg chastises Tories for rocking the coalition boat

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words


Nick Clegg will chastise the Conservatives today for destabilising the
Government as he attempts to quash rumours that there may be a premature end to
the coalition.

In a sign of the concern at the effect of Tory infighting, the Deputy Prime
Minister will use a speech to "reassure" voters that the pact will last until
the next election, scheduled for 2015.

He will attack this week's Tory "parliamentary game-playing" designed to wreck
the introduction of gay marriage.

The Lib Dem leader will also attack David Cameron for attempting to appease his
party with a plan to enshrine an EU referendum in law.

"If you're an ordinary person going about your daily business, what would you
have seen if you tuned into Westminster over the last few weeks," he will say.
"One minute, a coalition Government publishing its third Queen's Speech. The
next, MPs disappearing into a parliamentary rabbit warren, obsessing over this
new tactic or that new trick. Anyone watching would be forgiven for asking,
'What are these politicians doing?' " Mr Clegg fuelled speculation about the
longevity of the coalition last week when he told Lib Dem peers that the Tories
had changed over the past three years. "This isn't the Tory party I went into
coalition with," he said.

Some of those present wondered whether Mr Clegg was beginning to rehearse his
arguments for the premature break-up of the governing partnership. Senior
sources close to Mr Clegg said that the comment would have referred to the
recent behaviour of Tory backbenchers.

Some senior Lib Dems fear that the Tories are trying to chisel them out of the
coalition and Mr Clegg's speech is in part an effort to pre-empt any further
such talk. "There's no conversation on our side about leaving," one senior MP
said. "The noises are coming from them."

One Lib Dem concern is that if the party left the coalition earlier Mr Cameron
would use the last six or eight months of the Parliament to publish populist
measures on immigration and human rights laws that Mr Clegg would be powerless
to temper.

Mr Clegg's aides said that today's speech was designed to help Mr Cameron to
keep the Government on track. Many Tories will see it as an attempt to
capitalise on their infighting and paint the Lib Dems as the united party.

The speech comes after The Times revealed last week that senior Tories were
planning for the early break-up of the coalition should Mr Clegg become unable
to keep his party on side until 2015. No 10 aides have looked at several
scenarios, including the Lib Dems quitting up to a year before polling day.

Mr Clegg's intervention also follows an interview with the Prime Minister,
published today, in which he appeared to contemplate an early end of the
coalition.

Mr Cameron told Total Politics magazine that while the best way to reform
Britain was through the coalition, "if that wasn't the case then we'd have to
face the new circumstances in whatever way we should".

Mr Clegg will warn the Tories that it is "time to get back to governing". He
will say that both he and Mr Cameron will come under pressure to break up the
coalition as the election approaches but that "making compromises" and "doing
things you find uncomfortable" were part of governing in the national interest.

"In 2010 the British people dealt us this hand," he will say. "And they will not
forgive either party if we call time ahead of the election that has been
legislated for in 2015 - destabilising the nation in the vague hope of
short-term political gain. I know some commentators think it would be clever to
duck out six months early. But that doesn't make any sense either. The idea that
the Liberal Democrats could suddenly win back those people who have never liked
us going into Government with the Conservatives is nonsense." Gay marriage vote,
News, page 16

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Clegg chastises Tories for rocking the coalition boat

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words


Nick Clegg will chastise the Conservatives today for destabilising the
Government as he attempts to quash rumours that there may be a premature end to
the coalition.

In a sign of the concern at the effect of Tory infighting, the Deputy Prime
Minister will use a speech to "reassure" voters that the pact will last until
the next election, scheduled for 2015.

He will attack this week's Tory "parliamentary game-playing" designed to wreck
the introduction of gay marriage.

The Lib Dem leader will also attack David Cameron for attempting to appease his
party with a plan to enshrine an EU referendum in law.

"If you're an ordinary person going about your daily business, what would you
have seen if you tuned into Westminster over the last few weeks," he will say.
"One minute, a coalition Government publishing its third Queen's Speech. The
next, MPs disappearing into a parliamentary rabbit warren, obsessing over this
new tactic or that new trick. Anyone watching would be forgiven for asking,
'What are these politicians doing?' " Mr Clegg fuelled speculation about the
longevity of the coalition last week when he told Lib Dem peers that the Tories
had changed over the past three years. "This isn't the Tory party I went into
coalition with," he said.

Some of those present wondered whether Mr Clegg was beginning to rehearse his
arguments for the premature break-up of the governing partnership. Senior
sources close to Mr Clegg said that the comment would have referred to the
recent behaviour of Tory backbenchers.

Some senior Lib Dems fear that the Tories are trying to chisel them out of the
coalition and Mr Clegg's speech is in part an effort to pre-empt any further
such talk. "There's no conversation on our side about leaving," one senior MP
said. "The noises are coming from them."

One Lib Dem concern is that if the party left the coalition earlier Mr Cameron
would use the last six or eight months of the Parliament to publish populist
measures on immigration and human rights laws that Mr Clegg would be powerless
to temper.

Mr Clegg's aides said that today's speech was designed to help Mr Cameron to
keep the Government on track. Many Tories will see it as an attempt to
capitalise on their infighting and paint the Lib Dems as the united party.

The speech comes after The Times revealed last week that senior Tories were
planning for the early break-up of the coalition should Mr Clegg become unable
to keep his party on side until 2015. No 10 aides have looked at several
scenarios, including the Lib Dems quitting up to a year before polling day.

Mr Clegg's intervention also follows an interview with the Prime Minister,
published today, in which he appeared to contemplate an early end of the
coalition.

Mr Cameron told Total Politics magazine that while the best way to reform
Britain was through the coalition, "if that wasn't the case then we'd have to
face the new circumstances in whatever way we should".

Mr Clegg will warn the Tories that it is "time to get back to governing". He
will say that both he and Mr Cameron will come under pressure to break up the
coalition as the election approaches but that "making compromises" and "doing
things you find uncomfortable" were part of governing in the national interest.

"In 2010 the British people dealt us this hand," he will say. "And they will not
forgive either party if we call time ahead of the election that has been
legislated for in 2015 - destabilising the nation in the vague hope of
short-term political gain. I know some commentators think it would be clever to
duck out six months early. But that doesn't make any sense either. The idea that
the Liberal Democrats could suddenly win back those people who have never liked
us going into Government with the Conservatives is nonsense." Gay marriage vote,
News, page 16

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gay marriage revolt drives Cameron into Labour arms;
PM pleads with Miliband to rescue Bill from wreckers Late appeal for Miliband's
help as gay marriage revolt split Tories

BYLINE: Laura Pitel; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,8,9

LENGTH: 1065 words


David Cameron stoked Tory anger last night after he struck an eleventh-hour deal
with Labour to save his divisive gay marriage plans.

Even with Labour support, the Government suffered a series of bruising defeats
as two Cabinet members and nine junior ministers led dozens of Tories to vote
against the leadership.

Their efforts to secure opt-outs for teachers and marriage registrars opposed to
gay marriage were defeated with the aid of Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs. But
the sheer scale of Conservative opposition to the Prime Minister, on a free
vote, was a sign of how mutinous the party has become.

More than 100 Tory MPs, led by Iain Duncan Smith, the Work and Pensions
Secretary, and Owen Paterson, the Environment Secretary, repeatedly lined up
against Mr Cameron.

As the scale of the rebellion became clear, the Prime Minister was forced to
plead with Ed Miliband to rescue him on a vote to extend civil partnerships to
heterosexual couples. Without the support of Labour, the whole Bill would have
been at risk, and Mr Miliband stepped in.

Senior Conservatives were left infuriated by what they branded "yet another
instance of utter incompetence" by the party leadership.

Last night's vote continued a rocky few weeks for the Prime Minister and his
party after the record Commons split over an in-out EU referendum last week and
the dismissal of Conservative Party activists as "swivel-eyed loons" by a member
of his inner circle.

Lord Feldman, the Conservative co-chairman, won a vote of confidence yesterday
from the party's board after he insisted that he had not used the term to
describe local Tory associations.

Grassroots Conservatives dismissed the decision as a whitewash. The board said
that Mr Cameron's "chumocratic" style of leadership was too remote from the
party's activist base. The Prime Minister sought to appease activists last night
by saying in an e-mail that he would never have around him anyone who "sneered"
at the party's grassroots.

Tory morale was further dented last term to describe local Tory associations.
Grassroots Tories dismissed the decision as a whitewash.

The board said that Mr Cameron's "chumocratic" style of leadership was too
remote from the party's activist base. He sought to appease activists last night
by saying in an email that he would never have around him anyone who "sneered"
at the party's grassroots.

Tory morale was further dented last night by a Survation poll showing the party,
on 24 per cent, just two points ahead of UKIP.

Yesterday's machinations saw Ed Miliband and Mr Cameron shift to prevent the gay
marriage Bill being wrecked by Conservative rebels.

Mr Miliband eventually decided to oppose the "wrecking amendment" put forward by
the former Tory minister Tim Loughton, despite Labour indicating at the weekend
that the party would vote for it.

Instead, Labour called for a review into the future of civil partnerships to
begin as quickly as possible. The Government, which had been proposing a review
five years after the first gay marriages next year, accepted.

Mr Cameron had previously dismissed the idea of changing the law on civil
partnerships, for fear that allowing heterosexual couples equality with gay
couples risked undermining marriage.

Government aides suggested the review would not start until the autumn and could
take up to 18 months, reporting just before the 2015 election. They also
suggested it could just as easily recommend axing civil partnerships for gay
couples as extending the arrangement to heterosexual couples.

Ministers also bought off some rebels by offering to consider legal protection
for teachers who refuse to instruct pupils about gay weddings.In a sign of the
bitter divisions that gay marriage has exposed within the Conservative party,
Tory MPs used the Commons debate to voice alarm at the changes and lament the
Government's determination to plough ahead.

David Burrowes, who has led Tory opposition to the Bill, said he feared that
without any amendments the plan would become a "charter for dismissal" for
registrars, teachers and other public sector workers who did not support
same-sex unions. He claimed that there was a "chill wind" blowing through the
country for those who backed "traditional marriage".

Q&A

What is all the fuss about?

David Cameron has made it his mission to legalise gay marriage. But many
Conservatives and their (often elderly) local association members are affronted
by the idea, which they say undermines the institution of marriage and is of
little interest to the electorate. Some Tories are using the Bill as a conduit
for their dislike of the Prime Minister and his "metropolitan" inclinations.

Why the focus on civil partnerships?

A group of Tory opponents of gay marriage formed an unlikely alliance with
equality champions to back the extension of civil partnerships to straight
couples. The Government's proposed Bill, they argued, created inconstancy by
offering gay couples two ways of formalising their relationships - civil
partnerships and marriage - while straight couples only had the latter. Many
Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs supported the idea in principle, but Tory
advocates were accused of supporting it with the aim of wrecking the Bill.

So what is the future of civil partnerships?

Before last night's vote, it looked likely that a Labour proposal for an
immediate review of civil partnerships would pass. The Government decided to
support it in order to see off the threat of the rebels' civil partnership
proposal. To avoid complications ministers may propose the abolition of civil
partnerships, arguing that they are superfluous if gay couples can marry.

What happens next with the equal marriage Bill?

Today the Commons will debate further amendments before voting on whether to
approve the Bill's third reading, sending it over to the House of Lords. It is
expected to pass the Commons vote thanks to the support of Labour and Liberal
Democrats.

When will gay marriage become law?

The Bill is expected to arrive in the Lords at the start of June and it will
have a rough ride. Peers have the time and the inclination to work through the
legislation line by line looking for flaws. Even supporters of the proposals,
such as Peter Tatchell, say there are inconsistencies in the Bill, and the Lords
are likely to try to iron these out. Ultimately, it is expected to pass and the
first gay wedding could be as soon as the summer of 2014.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Protesters taking the traditional view of marriage gathered outside the
House of Commons yesterday to show their disapproval at the passage of the Bill
FACUNDO ARRIZABALAGA / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Here's the speech Cameron should give now;
If the Tory leader is self-effacing and makes peace with his restless party he
can still defeat Labour in 2015

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1066 words


David Cameron's leadership of the Conservative Party is in trouble. Many voters
now see him as a fake. Large majorities believe that his positions on Europe and
gay marriage represent political calculation rather than sincere conviction. A
YouGov poll has found that just 10 per cent of voters believe that the
Conservative Party is united. Seven times as many think it is divided. And just
when things couldn't get much worse, one of his closest aides is accused of
likening the party's hardest-working volunteers to "swivel-eyed loons".

If Mr Cameron doesn't get a grip, his predicament could deteriorate further.
Tory MPs - as well as his Liberal Democrat coalition partners - now see him as a
man caught in the middle of a political tug-of-war. They believe he'll move in
the direction of the strongest and best-organised tug. Mr Cameron needs to sue
for peace with his unhappy party if he is to have any chance of persuading the
nation that he deserves a second term.

If I were in David Cameron's shoes I'd offer contrition on Europe, a big peace
offering to party members and then, from those two launchpads, a big outreach to
the voters who still see the Tories as the party of the rich. If I were his
speechwriter, this is what I would suggest: "The last few messy weeks have not
been the Conservative Party's finest. As the party's leader I take full personal
responsibility and would like to apologise to a nation that deserves better than
internal party squabbling. When, last June, more than 100 of my Conservative
colleagues urged me to enact a legislative guarantee of a referendum on Europe,
I should have listened to them. They were right that a simple manifesto promise
was not enough. I needed to put my promise of an in/out referendum into
legislation, or should at least have tried to do so.

Our membership of the European Union is not a small matter. The price we pay for
groceries, our ability to control who enters our country, the regulations that
burden our job-creating businesses, the cost of the energy that heats our homes:
so much of what affects us is decided in Brussels. The Conservative Party is now
clear that if we are returned to office we will give voters a say on our
membership of the European Union. It is equally clear that neither Labour nor
the Liberal Democrats will do the same. I expect this issue of which party
trusts the people - and which do not - will become a central issue at the next
election.

Today I'm taking a further step to reassure people of my determination on the
issue of Europe. I've asked David Davis to put together a team and lead
preparations for renegotiations that will take place in the next parliament. A
former Europe Minister, David has been missing from the top Tory table for too
long. But it's a time for healing of some old wounds and for a bridging of some
old differences. With David preparing our renegotiations strategy and all Tory
MPs whipped in support of James Wharton's referendum Bill, I hope people will
accept that I have now done everything I can to prove I'm serious about changing
Britain's relationship with Europe.

A strong Europe policy will help us to win the next election and I am absolutely
convinced that we can win that election. Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats
have been decent coalition partners. They - like us - have sometimes found the
compromises of coalition hard to swallow but, unlike Labour, they've understood
the need to cut the deficit, bring welfare bills under control and improve the
nation's education system. But we need a Conservative government to complete the
work. I want us to go further on controlling immigration; we must replace
European human rights laws; and we must support the family.

There has to be a chance, however, that we won't win the next election. Should
we fall short again, I give an undertaking that I won't sign a second coalition
agreement until after it has been endorsed by a vote of the whole Tory
membership. I will not sign any coalition deal that I don't think could be
approved by the people who do so much for the Conservative Party - delivering
leaflets, knocking on doors, raising party funds. A grassroots ratification of
any coalition agreement would also ensure the party in the country felt it had
some ownership of a second coalition. It wouldn't just be seen as my project or
the plaything of a few politicians at Westminster.

A national referendum on Europe and a party referendum on any new coalition
agreement are proof that while I may be leader of the Conservative Party, I
understand that I don't own it. My third and final new commitment concerns the
need for the party to move into election mode and rediscover its sense of a
great purpose.

In November 2014, 18 months from now, I will unveil the Tory manifesto for the
next general election. A manifesto shouldn't be produced with just three weeks
until polling day. I want it published early so people have time to study our
promises.

Although it will have a European chapter, it will not focus on Europe. It will
be a manifesto that focuses on the great challenges facing our country. How do
we cut families' energy bills? How do we get more first-time buyers on to the
housing ladder? How do we ensure that every parent has access to a good school?
How do we build roads and railways of world-class standard? How do we guarantee
that northern parts of England and the whole of Britain share in the prosperity
that we create? This last question is particularly important. It is no longer
enough to create prosperity. We must also ensure that every person in Britain
feels that they have a stake in the system and benefit from it. We will succeed
as a party only when we deserve to succeed - when we are as committed to
reducing the power of monopoly businesses as we are to reducing the power of
Brussels; as worried about the marginal tax rates facing the low-paid as those
facing the high-paid.

Labour is beatable at the next election. People do not see Ed Miliband as a
prime minister in waiting. We can win if we offer the British people a united
message. If we are a Eurosceptic party committed to the NHS, to helping the
low-paid and to controlling immigration, we will be unstoppable. Let us build
that party. Not me - on my own with a few people at Westminster - but together.
One party. One mission. One nation."

'We can succeed as a Eurosceptic party committed to the NHS'

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron is facing grassroots unrest over Europe and gay marriage
MARY TURNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

No 10 fears UKIP may win Euro election

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 654 words


Lord Howe Party is having 'a long nervous breakdown' Jeremy Hunt Tories
'absolutely united' over Europe Downing Street is conceding that the UK
Independence Party could come first in next year's European elections.

A senior figure at No 10 said privately that it was now a "reasonable
assumption" that Nigel Farage's party would top the poll in 2014, despite
repeated attempts by David Cameron to stop the loss of Tory votes to UKIP.

His words came as Mr Cameron was accused of "losing control" of his party over
Europe by the former Foreign Secretary, Lord Howe. The peer said that the
Conservatives were having a "long, nervous breakdown" over the issue.

The Prime Minister was dogged by questions over Europe during his trip to the US
last week, during which an endorsement of his approach from Barack Obama and a
promise to introduce an EU Referendum Bill failed to quell Tory frustrations.

It has caused deep concern at Number 10. "[Europe] will keep coming back," said
a source. "UKIP are going to do very well next year and we are going to have to
go through all this again."

UKIP scored a record high in an opinion poll at the weekend, with a fifth of
voters saying that they would back Mr Farage's party. The ComRes poll put UKIP
on 19 per cent, with Labour on 35 per cent and the Tories on 29 per cent.

Alarm over the possibility of a British exit from Europe has led to concern in
the City. In a joint letter today, business leaders including Sir Richard
Branson, founder of the Virgin Group, Sir Win Bischoff, chairman of Lloyds
Banking Group, and Sir Roger Carr, chairman of Centrica, said the economic case
for staying in the EU was "overwhelming".

Lord Howe said that Mr Cameron had "opened a Pandora's box" by pledging to
renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU before holding an in/out
referendum. "The ratchet-effect of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the
leadership is in effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone UKIP,
having allowed deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party," he
wrote in The Observer.

Nick Clegg's team is intensely annoyed by the row and its effect on the
reputation of the coalition. One pointed to the overhaul of the rehabilitation
of offenders as a topic that could have been heralded as a good news story had
Tory rows over Europe not intervened.

"The Conservative Party has spent the last week banging on and on about Europe
when we could and should have been promoting our own Queen's Speech," said a
source close to Nick Clegg. "The 'rehabilitation revolution' is a classic
example of the two parties in the coalition working together to introduce a
much-needed reform. Someone should promote our programme in Government - and it
looks like it's been left to the Lib Dems."

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, insisted that the party was "absolutely
united" over Europe. "We look at the European Union and we worry about Britain's
ability to compete in the global race," he The Andrew Marr Show. The Prime
Minister was "showing leadership" by promising to work to change the
relationship with Brussels and the Tories were the only party prepared to "do
the heavy lifting."

He said that it would be wrong to underestimate Mr Cameron because he had shown
through his use of the veto and securing a cut in the EU budget that "this is
someone who has delivered a very great deal".

The former Tory Cabinet minister John Redwood said: "We are very happy with the
policy of negotiate and decide. What we want is for [Mr Cameron] to get on with
the negotiation." Labour happily exploited the disarray.

Lord Mandelson said: "We all know what's going on inside the party. The UK
isolation party and their fellow travellers in the Conservatives are operating a
Soprano-style protection racket inside the Conservative party. They are saying:
'Do what we want, give us what we are demanding, or we are going to burn your
home down.' " Tim Montgomerie, page 17

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory Right use 'loonies' row to attack Cameron gang of chums

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 549 words


Lord Feldman is to be quizzed by senior Tories today over allegations that one
of David Cameron's inner circle described party members as "mad, swivel-eyed
loons".

Several Tories demanded severe punishment for the person who made the remark,
with some accusing the Prime Minister of losing touch with party grassroots by
filling Downing Street with friends and acquaintances.

One Tory minister said that it was inevitable that MPs would use the allegations
to attack Mr Cameron's management style. "It's a way for people to break the
gang of chums," the minister said. "So they will want to try." Tory figures
yesterday rallied in support of Lord Feldman, the party's co-chairman and a
friend of the Prime Minister since their days at Oxford.

It was revealed on Saturday that an unnamed senior Conservative close to Mr
Cameron had made the comments after more than 100 Tory MPs backed a vote
"regretting" that the Queen's Speech had not included an EU Referendum Bill. The
figure was reported as saying: "It's fine. There's really no problem.

The MPs just have to do it because the [Conservative] associations tell them to,
and the associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

Lord Feldman denied making the comments after rumours on Twitter suggested that
he was the person behind the slur. Downing Street backed the peer, but said that
there was "an exchange" between the peer and two journalists during a meeting at
the Blue Boar Smokehouse at the Inter-Continental Hotel in St James's, central
London, last Wednesday. The peer will be asked during a meeting of the Tory
Party board today to explain the exact nature of the words exchanged.

It is not the first time that a Downing Street source is alleged to have used
the toxic phrase. A profile of Mr Cameron in the Financial Times last year said
that the Prime Minister "tells colleagues that anyone who wants to talk to him
about the EU is 'swivel-eyed' ". Brian Binley, a Tory MP and a member of the
party's board, said: "I believe there is a bit of history to this phrase being
used. There is a feeling that a group of people feel that they have taken over
the party."

Nadine Dorries, the Tory MP for Mid Bedfordshire, said: "If I or any MP had made
such a comment, our punishment would have been both instant and ruthless. It
would have taken only speculation without confirmation for that to have
happened. "Someone made those comments. If it was Feldman, and I'm not saying it
was, then of course he should take the same punishment any backbench MP would
have to have taken."

John Redwood, the former Cabinet minister and a leading figure on the Tory
Right, said that consequences should follow if the remark was made. "I was very
glad that's been strenuously denied and if there is such a person, not named of
course, then they should be reprimanded," he told the BBC's The Andrew Marr
Show.

The Tory MP Tracey Crouch added: "I wonder if this 'aide' has ever been a member
of an association, delivered a single leaflet, packed an envelope or knocked on
a door?" In a statement Lord Feldman said that he was considering legal action.
He said: "I would like to make it quite clear that I did not nor have ever
described our associations in this way or in any similar manner. Nor do these
alleged comments represent my view of our activists."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "The swivel eyes to the right have it"
Brussels celebrates Belgian Pride in a weekend event for gay and bisexual
rights. David Cameron's plan to introduce same-sex marriage may be plunged into
chaos if Labour MPs join Tory rebels
LAURIE DIEFFEMBACQ / AFP / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Here's the speech Cameron should give now;
If the Tory leader is self-effacing and makes peace with his restless party he
can still defeat Labour in 2015

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1066 words


David Cameron's leadership of the Conservative Party is in trouble. Many voters
now see him as a fake. Large majorities believe that his positions on Europe and
gay marriage represent political calculation rather than sincere conviction. A
YouGov poll has found that just 10 per cent of voters believe that the
Conservative Party is united. Seven times as many think it is divided. And just
when things couldn't get much worse, one of his closest aides is accused of
likening the party's hardest-working volunteers to "swivel-eyed loons".

If Mr Cameron doesn't get a grip, his predicament could deteriorate further.
Tory MPs - as well as his Liberal Democrat coalition partners - now see him as a
man caught in the middle of a political tug-of-war. They believe he'll move in
the direction of the strongest and best-organised tug. Mr Cameron needs to sue
for peace with his unhappy party if he is to have any chance of persuading the
nation that he deserves a second term.

If I were in David Cameron's shoes I'd offer contrition on Europe, a big peace
offering to party members and then, from those two launchpads, a big outreach to
the voters who still see the Tories as the party of the rich. If I were his
speechwriter, this is what I would suggest: "The last few messy weeks have not
been the Conservative Party's finest. As the party's leader I take full personal
responsibility and would like to apologise to a nation that deserves better than
internal party squabbling. When, last June, more than 100 of my Conservative
colleagues urged me to enact a legislative guarantee of a referendum on Europe,
I should have listened to them. They were right that a simple manifesto promise
was not enough. I needed to put my promise of an in/out referendum into
legislation, or should at least have tried to do so.

Our membership of the European Union is not a small matter. The price we pay for
groceries, our ability to control who enters our country, the regulations that
burden our job-creating businesses, the cost of the energy that heats our homes:
so much of what affects us is decided in Brussels. The Conservative Party is now
clear that if we are returned to office we will give voters a say on our
membership of the European Union. It is equally clear that neither Labour nor
the Liberal Democrats will do the same. I expect this issue of which party
trusts the people - and which do not - will become a central issue at the next
election.

Today I'm taking a further step to reassure people of my determination on the
issue of Europe. I've asked David Davis to put together a team and lead
preparations for renegotiations that will take place in the next parliament. A
former Europe Minister, David has been missing from the top Tory table for too
long. But it's a time for healing of some old wounds and for a bridging of some
old differences. With David preparing our renegotiations strategy and all Tory
MPs whipped in support of James Wharton's referendum Bill, I hope people will
accept that I have now done everything I can to prove I'm serious about changing
Britain's relationship with Europe.

A strong Europe policy will help us to win the next election and I am absolutely
convinced that we can win that election. Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats
have been decent coalition partners. They - like us - have sometimes found the
compromises of coalition hard to swallow but, unlike Labour, they've understood
the need to cut the deficit, bring welfare bills under control and improve the
nation's education system. But we need a Conservative government to complete the
work. I want us to go further on controlling immigration; we must replace
European human rights laws; and we must support the family.

There has to be a chance, however, that we won't win the next election. Should
we fall short again, I give an undertaking that I won't sign a second coalition
agreement until after it has been endorsed by a vote of the whole Tory
membership. I will not sign any coalition deal that I don't think could be
approved by the people who do so much for the Conservative Party - delivering
leaflets, knocking on doors, raising party funds. A grassroots ratification of
any coalition agreement would also ensure the party in the country felt it had
some ownership of a second coalition. It wouldn't just be seen as my project or
the plaything of a few politicians at Westminster.

A national referendum on Europe and a party referendum on any new coalition
agreement are proof that while I may be leader of the Conservative Party, I
understand that I don't own it. My third and final new commitment concerns the
need for the party to move into election mode and rediscover its sense of a
great purpose.

In November 2014, 18 months from now, I will unveil the Tory manifesto for the
next general election. A manifesto shouldn't be produced with just three weeks
until polling day. I want it published early so people have time to study our
promises.

Although it will have a European chapter, it will not focus on Europe. It will
be a manifesto that focuses on the great challenges facing our country. How do
we cut families' energy bills? How do we get more first-time buyers on to the
housing ladder? How do we ensure that every parent has access to a good school?
How do we build roads and railways of world-class standard? How do we guarantee
that northern parts of England and the whole of Britain share in the prosperity
that we create? This last question is particularly important. It is no longer
enough to create prosperity. We must also ensure that every person in Britain
feels that they have a stake in the system and benefit from it. We will succeed
as a party only when we deserve to succeed - when we are as committed to
reducing the power of monopoly businesses as we are to reducing the power of
Brussels; as worried about the marginal tax rates facing the low-paid as those
facing the high-paid.

Labour is beatable at the next election. People do not see Ed Miliband as a
prime minister in waiting. We can win if we offer the British people a united
message. If we are a Eurosceptic party committed to the NHS, to helping the
low-paid and to controlling immigration, we will be unstoppable. Let us build
that party. Not me - on my own with a few people at Westminster - but together.
One party. One mission. One nation."

'We can succeed as a Eurosceptic party committed to the NHS'

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron is facing grassroots unrest over Europe and gay marriage
MARY TURNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

No 10 fears UKIP may win Euro election

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 654 words


Lord Howe

Party is having 'a long nervous breakdown'

Jeremy Hunt

Tories 'absolutely united' over Europe

Downing  Street is conceding that the UK Independence Party could come first in
next year's European elections.

A senior figure at No 10 said privately that it was now a "reasonable
assumption" that Nigel Farage's party would top the poll in 2014, despite
repeated attempts by David Cameron to stop the loss of Tory votes to UKIP.

His words came as Mr Cameron was accused of "losing control" of his party over
Europe by the former Foreign Secretary, Lord Howe. The peer said that the
Conservatives were having a "long, nervous breakdown" over the issue.

The Prime Minister was dogged by questions over Europe during his trip to the US
last week, during which an endorsement of his approach from Barack Obama and a
promise to introduce an EU Referendum Bill failed to quell Tory frustrations.

It has caused deep concern at Number 10. "[Europe] will keep coming back," said
a source. "UKIP are going to do very well next year and we are going to have to
go through all this again."

UKIP scored a record high in an opinion poll at the weekend, with a fifth of
voters saying that they would back Mr Farage's party. The ComRes poll put UKIP
on 19 per cent, with Labour on 35 per cent and the Tories on 29 per cent.

Alarm over the possibility of a British exit from Europe has led to concern in
the City. In a joint letter today, business leaders including Sir Richard
Branson, founder of the Virgin Group, Sir Win Bischoff, chairman of Lloyds
Banking Group, and Sir Roger Carr, chairman of Centrica, said the economic case
for staying in the EU was "overwhelming".

Lord Howe said that Mr Cameron had "opened a Pandora's box" by pledging to
renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU before holding an in/out
referendum. "The ratchet-effect of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the
leadership is in effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone UKIP,
having allowed deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party," he
wrote in The Observer.

Nick Clegg's team is intensely annoyed by the row and its effect on the
reputation of the coalition. One pointed to the overhaul of the rehabilitation
of offenders as a topic that could have been heralded as a good news story had
Tory rows over Europe not intervened.

"The Conservative Party has spent the last week banging on and on about Europe
when we could and should have been promoting our own Queen's Speech," said a
source close to Nick Clegg. "The 'rehabilitation revolution' is a classic
example of the two parties in the coalition working together to introduce a
much-needed reform. Someone should promote our programme in Government - and it
looks like it's been left to the Lib Dems."

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, insisted that the party was "absolutely
united" over Europe. "We look at the European Union and we worry about Britain's
ability to compete in the global race," he The Andrew Marr Show. The Prime
Minister was "showing leadership" by promising to work to change the
relationship with Brussels and the Tories were the only party prepared to "do
the heavy lifting."

He said that it would be wrong to underestimate Mr Cameron because he had shown
through his use of the veto and securing a cut in the EU budget that "this is
someone who has delivered a very great deal".

The former Tory Cabinet minister John Redwood said: "We are very happy with the
policy of negotiate and decide. What we want is for [Mr Cameron] to get on with
the negotiation." Labour happily exploited the disarray.

Lord Mandelson said: "We all know what's going on inside the party. The UK
isolation party and their fellow travellers in the Conservatives are operating a
Soprano-style protection racket inside the Conservative party. They are saying:
'Do what we want, give us what we are demanding, or we are going to burn your
home down.' " Tim Montgomerie, page 21

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory Right use 'loonies' row to attack Cameron gang of chums

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 549 words


Lord Feldman is to be quizzed by senior Tories today over allegations that one
of David Cameron's inner circle described party members as "mad, swivel-eyed
loons".

Several Tories demanded severe punishment for the person who made the remark,
with some accusing the Prime Minister of losing touch with party grassroots by
filling Downing Street with friends and acquaintances.

One Tory minister said that it was inevitable that MPs would use the allegations
to attack Mr Cameron's management style. "It's a way for people to break the
gang of chums," the minister said. "So they will want to try." Tory figures
yesterday rallied in support of Lord Feldman, the party's co-chairman and a
friend of the Prime Minister since their days at Oxford.

It was revealed on Saturday that an unnamed senior Conservative close to Mr
Cameron had made the comments after more than 100 Tory MPs backed a vote
"regretting" that the Queen's Speech had not included an EU Referendum Bill. The
figure was reported as saying: "It's fine. There's really no problem.

The MPs just have to do it because the [Conservative] associations tell them to,
and the associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

Lord Feldman denied making the comments after rumours on Twitter suggested that
he was the person behind the slur. Downing Street backed the peer, but said that
there was "an exchange" between the peer and two journalists during a meeting at
the Blue Boar Smokehouse at the Inter-Continental Hotel in St James's, central
London, last Wednesday. The peer will be asked during a meeting of the Tory
Party board today to explain the exact nature of the words exchanged.

It is not the first time that a Downing Street source is alleged to have used
the toxic phrase. A profile of Mr Cameron in the Financial Times last year said
that the Prime Minister "tells colleagues that anyone who wants to talk to him
about the EU is 'swivel-eyed' ". Brian Binley, a Tory MP and a member of the
party's board, said: "I believe there is a bit of history to this phrase being
used. There is a feeling that a group of people feel that they have taken over
the party."

Nadine Dorries, the Tory MP for Mid Bedfordshire, said: "If I or any MP had made
such a comment, our punishment would have been both instant and ruthless. It
would have taken only speculation without confirmation for that to have
happened. "Someone made those comments. If it was Feldman, and I'm not saying it
was, then of course he should take the same punishment any backbench MP would
have to have taken."

John Redwood, the former Cabinet minister and a leading figure on the Tory
Right, said that consequences should follow if the remark was made. "I was very
glad that's been strenuously denied and if there is such a person, not named of
course, then they should be reprimanded," he told the BBC's The Andrew Marr
Show.

The Tory MP Tracey Crouch added: "I wonder if this 'aide' has ever been a member
of an association, delivered a single leaflet, packed an envelope or knocked on
a door?" In a statement Lord Feldman said that he was considering legal action.
He said: "I would like to make it quite clear that I did not nor have ever
described our associations in this way or in any similar manner. Nor do these
alleged comments represent my view of our activists."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "The swivel eyes to the right have it"
Brussels celebrates Belgian Pride in a weekend event for gay and bisexual
rights. David Cameron's plan to introduce same-sex marriage may be plunged into
chaos if Labour MPs join Tory rebels
LAURIE DIEFFEMBACQ / AFP / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

No 10 fears UKIP may win Euro election

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 642 words


Lord Howe Party is having 'a long nervous breakdown' Jeremy Hunt Tories
'absolutely united' over Europe Downing Street is conceding that the UK
Independence Party could come first in next year's European elections.

A senior figure at No 10 said privately that it was now a "reasonable
assumption" that Nigel Farage's party would top the poll in 2014.

His words came as Mr Cameron was accused of "losing control" of his party over
Europe by the former Foreign Secretary, Lord Howe of Aberavon, who said that the
Conservatives were having a "long, nervous breakdown" over the issue.

The Prime Minister was dogged by questions over Europe during his trip to the US
last week, during which an endorsement of his approach from President Obama and
a promise to introduce an EU Referendum Bill failed to quell Tory frustrations.

It has caused deep concern at No 10.

"[Europe] will keep coming back," said a source. "UKIP are going to do very well
next year and we are going to have to go through all this again."

UKIP scored a record high in an opinion poll at the weekend, with a fifth of
voters saying that they would back Mr Farage's party. The ComRes poll put UKIP
on 19 per cent, with Labour on 35 per cent and the Tories on 29 per cent.

Alarm over the possibility of a British exit from Europe has led to concern in
the City. In a joint letter today, business leaders including Sir Richard
Branson, founder of the Virgin Group, Sir Win Bischoff, chairman of Lloyds
Banking Group, and Sir Roger Carr, chairman of Centrica, said the economic case
for staying in the EU was "overwhelming".

Lord Howe said that Mr Cameron had "opened a Pandora's box" by pledging to
renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU before holding an in/out
referendum. "The ratchet-effect of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the
leadership is in effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone UKIP,
having allowed deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party," he
wrote in The Observer.

Nick Clegg's team is intensely annoyed by the row and its effect on the
reputation of the coalition. One pointed to the overhaul of the rehabilitation
of offenders as a topic that could have been heralded as a good news story had
Tory rows over Europe not intervened.

"The Conservative Party has spent the last week banging on and on about Europe
when we could and should have been promoting our own Queen's Speech," a source
close to Nick Clegg said. "The 'rehabilitation revolution' is a classic example
of the two parties in the coalition working together to introduce a much-needed
reform. Someone should promote our programme in Government - and it looks like
it's been left to the Lib Dems."

Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, insisted that the party was "absolutely
united" over Europe. "We look at the European Union and we worry about Britain's
ability to compete in the global race," he told The Andrew Marr Show. The Prime
Minister was "showing leadership" by promising to work to change the
relationship with Brussels and the Tories were the only party prepared to "do
the heavy lifting".

He said that it would be wrong to underestimate Mr Cameron because he had shown
through his use of the veto and securing a cut in the EU budget that "this is
someone who has delivered a very great deal".

The former Tory Cabinet minister John Redwood said: "We are very happy with the
policy of negotiate and decide. What we want is for [Mr Cameron] to get on with
the negotiation." Labour happily exploited the disarray.

Lord Mandelson said: "We all know what's going on inside the party. The UK
isolation party and their fellow travellers in the Conservatives are operating a
Soprano-style protection racket inside the Conservative Party. They are saying:
'Do what we want, give us what we are demanding, or we are going to burn your
home down.' " Tim Montgomerie, page 21

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory Right use 'loonies' row to attack Cameron gang of chums

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 552 words


Lord Feldman is to be quizzed by senior Conservatives today over allegations
that one of David Cameron's inner circle described party members as "mad,
swivel-eyed loons".

Several Tories demanded severe punishment for the person who made the remark,
with some accusing the Prime Minister of losing touch with party grassroots by
filling Downing Street with friends and acquaintances.

One Tory minister said that it was inevitable that MPs would use the allegations
to attack Mr Cameron's management style. "It's a way for people to break the
gang of chums," the minister said. "So they will want to try." Tory figures
yesterday rallied in support of Lord Feldman, the party's co-chairman and a
friend of the Prime Minister since their days at Oxford.

It was revealed on Saturday that an unnamed senior Conservative close to Mr
Cameron had made the comments after more than 100 Tory MPs backed a vote
"regretting" that the Queen's Speech had not included an EU Referendum Bill. The
figure was reported as saying: "It's fine. There's really no problem.

The MPs just have to do it because the [Conservative] associations tell them to,
and the associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

Lord Feldman denied making the comments after rumours on Twitter suggested that
he was the person behind the slur. Downing Street backed the peer, but said that
there was "an exchange" between the peer and two journalists during a meeting at
the Blue Boar Smokehouse at the Inter-Continental Hotel in St James's, Central
London, last Wednesday. The peer will be asked during a meeting of the Tory
party board today to explain the exact nature of the words exchanged.

It is not the first time that a Downing Street source is alleged to have used
the toxic phrase. A profile of Mr Cameron in the Financial Times last year said
that the Prime Minister "tells colleagues that anyone who wants to talk to him
about the EU is 'swivel-eyed' ". Brian Binley, a Tory MP and a member of the
party's board, said: "I believe there is a bit of history to this phrase being
used. There is a feeling that a group of people feel that they have taken over
the party."

Nadine Dorries, the Conservative MP for Mid Bedfordshire, said: "If I or any MP
had made such a comment, our punishment would have been both instant and
ruthless. It would have taken only speculation without confirmation for that to
have happened. "Someone made those comments. If it was Feldman, and I'm not
saying it was, then of course he should take the same punishment any backbench
MP would have to have taken."

John Redwood, the former Cabinet minister and a leading figure on the Tory
Right, said that consequences should follow if the remark was made. "I was very
glad that's been strenuously denied and if there is such a person, not named of
course, then they should be reprimanded," he told the BBC's The Andrew Marr
Show.

The Conservative MP Tracey Crouch added: "I wonder if this 'aide' has ever been
a member of an association, delivered a single leaflet, packed an envelope or
knocked on a door?" In a statement Lord Feldman said that he was considering
legal action. He said: "I would like to make it quite clear that I did not nor
have ever described our associations in this way or in any similar manner. Nor
do these alleged comments represent my view of our activists."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "The swivel eyes to the right have it"
Brussels celebrates Belgian Pride in a weekend event for gay and bisexual
rights. David Cameron's plan to introduce same-sex marriage may be plunged into
chaos if Labour MPs join Tory rebels
LAURIE DIEFFEMBACQ / AFP / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

My Week

BYLINE: David Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 530 words


Monday I'm in the White House. "From your villages and your towns," intones
Barack Obama. "From your stately homesteads and the patchwork tapestry of fields
you call home. Across the Atlantic you have flown; one leader to another. And
here you stand. Not really paying attention."

"Hmm?" I say. I'm sorry, I tell him.

It's all this Europe stuff. It's a bit distracting.

"Yeah," says Obama. "I read about that. Didn't really understand it."

It's quite simple, I explain. The party I lead, which doesn't follow me, is
angry that we're going to have a referendum because we want to, not because we
have to, following negotiations that haven't happened, and might not, on a
subject that doesn't interest voters but might cost us the election.

The President stares at me. "Look," he says, eventually. "Do you want to leave
Europe or not?" "Hell, yes," I say. "Whenever I can. Why do you think I'm here?"
"I was wondering," says the President.

own. I show him a photograph I'm planning to tweet, of me in the Oval Office
with Barack Obama. He shows me one he took of Miss America's bottom, while he
was pretending to tie his shoelace.

"Wouldn't tweet that," I say. "Anyway," says the Prince. "Were you at my school?
Totally recognise you."

"Yes," I say. "Obviously. But I'm also Prime Minister."

"Of America?" he says. "No," I say.

"So why are you here?" he says. "Don't you start," I say.

Wednesday Leaving tonight. At home, Parliament has rejected an obscure amendment
relating to an EU referendum. The moment I hear, I call Barack Obama.

"Why would I care?" he says.

"This is important stuff," I tell him.

Obama says he's a bit busy. The IRS has been targeting Tea Party groups, Syria
might be using chemical weapons, and his administration is rocked by accusations
that they launched a cover-up over a deadly attack in Benghazi.

"Could be worse!" I say. "You could be getting mildly criticised by Nadine
Dorries!" The President says he doesn't even know who that is.

"See?" I say.

Thursday Back into the office. "So," I say.

"Europe fuss over yet?" "Nope," says George. "It's been awful. We're all
planning for life after coalition."

"At least you'll have a life after coalition," says Nick, miserably.

"But I was in America!" I say. "With the leader of the free world! And Prince
Harry! I ought to be entirely untarnished!" George says nobody really noticed.
Everybody just thought I was hiding at home, being weak.

"Hell," I say. "Maybe I should go somewhere else."

"Edinburgh's nice," says Nick.

Friday I call Obama again. "I thought you might like to know," I tell him. "An
obscure Conservative backbencher has won the Private Member's Bill ballot! So I
might be off the hook!" "In my office and my bedroom," says the President. "At
the gym and in the bath. I am thinking. About changing my number." I'm really
sorry, I say. I haven't anybody else to talk to. Being in Washington was
supposed to make me look all heroic and statesmanlike. But nobody really paid
any attention.

"Did you tweet that photo yet?" says Obama.

"No!" I say. "Great plan! I'll do it now!" "Are you sure that's me?" he says,
after a while.

"Wait," I say. "No. That's Miss America. Bugger. How do you delete?" *according
to Hugo Rifkind

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tuesday Day two of my big America trip. This morning I'm riding through
New York on a big red bus with Prince Harry, who's here on a trip of his

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

If Dave cuts a deal with UKIP I'm outta here;
Moderate Tories must tell Cameron to stop wobbling - and that they'll quit the
party if he has any truck with Farage

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1205 words


'G od," said an excited Tory after a fellow MP was pulled from the sawdust of
Thursday's Private Member's Bills tombola clutching a euro-referendum Bill,
"must be a eurosceptic."

No. God must favour the sane for He directed my steps that same night to a book
launch at the National Gallery where the totally sane Conservative MP for
Hereford, Jesse Norman, was unveiling his new study of Edmund Burke. And as I
walked across Trafalgar Square contemplating the great 18th-century liberal
conservative philosopher, God reminded me of the last time the Tory Right were
deafening us, and I quoted Burke on this page: "Because half a dozen
grasshoppers under a fern make the field ring with their importunate clink,
whilst thousands of great cattle reposed beneath the shadow of the British oak
chew the cud and are silent, pray do not imagine that those who make the noise
are the only inhabitants of the field."

What madness has seized my party? Is it only the noisy ones? Have the rest been
brainwashed? Or just scared into silence? If so, that silence is flattering the
hysterical minority. The silence must be broken. The Tory MPs keeping their
heads are more numerous than we may suppose; we need to hear them.

In January David Cameron, in clear and measured terms, stated his intention to
renegotiate the terms of Britain's membership of the European Union and to put
the offer to a referendum. This he would do - and could only do - if the country
returned him to Downing Street with the mandate and majority he would need.
Mandate; renegotiation; referendum: the sequence would hand Britain the in/out
referendum that some Tories have always sought. Eurosceptics and Europhobes
alike applauded that speech. Pro-European Tories could accept it too.

What has changed since? Has Europe grown new fangs since January? Are enemy
troops massing across the Channel? Have horns and tails been spotted on members
of the European Commission? Nothing has changed. But in a couple of by-elections
and some local elections where two thirds of the electorate did not even bother
to vote, a party of the hard right, whose only coherent message is that things
ain't what they used to be and it's all the fault of foreigners, scored some
notable gains in particular places.

And a substantial minority of the Conservative Party have gone completely off
their heads. They want to feed the monster that threatens them. Mr Cameron has
seemed to wobble, as though he thinks the monster could be sated. I draw the
conclusion that Mr Cameron does not feel strong enough to ignore pressure. Then
more moderate men and women must draw the lesson: they too must raise voices.
The Prime Minister must be told that to please one crowd he has alarmed another.
Sanity must not by its silence seem to surrender to a populist insurgency from
outside the party.

The leader of the populist insurgency has made it clear that he wants the
Conservative Party - that ancient, broad and even-tempered coalition of many
types, united by a suspicion of zealotry, socialism and hot-headed change, the
party that I joined when I was 19 and have stuck with in good times and bad,
through a succession of leaders of different ideological stripes - to sack our
decent, middle-of-the-road leader, the most popular political leader in the
country, and take an ideological leap ... to where? I could waste your time with
the insurgents' last manifesto: a 25 per cent flat rate of tax; smoking to be
allowed in pubs; doubling prison places; abolishing national insurance
contributions and increasing defence spending by £16 billion ... the whole
package, unmatched by serious spending cuts, yielding a debt of £120 billion.
But why bother, because - be fair - the insurgents make no serious pretence of
wanting to govern. Their leader lays claim to a very different ambition: to
remake the Conservative Party in his own image.

He would do this to the Tories much as Militant Tendency tried to it to Labour
in the 1980s: by intimidation, manipulation and infiltration. The insurgents now
menacing the Conservative Party brandish threats to split its vote and rob it of
office, while cultivating a fifth column of rightwingers within Tory ranks - a
mixture of witting conspirators and useful idiots - who will echo the shouts
from outside the walls. The shouts are clear. They want Mr Cameron to be ousted
by a right-wing, anti-European Tory leader and his moderate pragmatism replaced
by a reactionary philosophy every one of whose serious elements is forged in
anger, resentment or nostalgia.

A friend starting as a cub reporter for a diary column on a mid-market tabloid,
let's call it the Daily Brute, received a pep talk from his diary editor.
"Always remember on the Brute," he was told, "that the ideal news item will
leave our readers feeling a little bit angrier, or a little bit more afraid."

Fear and anger. Every politician seeking easy applause knows how easy it is to
milk it in this way and no party is wholly innocent of the habit. But the
Conservative Party I once joined understands deep down that the habit can be
addictive, the addiction destructive and the fruit bitter, so keeps it under
control. So mostly do Labour and the Liberal Democrats. We should be proud in
Britain to have three parties that, however fitfully, know cheap populism for
the monster that it is.

This week the monster was fed. Some contented burping will ensue. You can expect
a measure of calm to return as the monster digests and its friends within the
Tory ranks rest. But they'll be back. Upon what pretext the next attack is based
should be a matter of indifference to us: why bother to follow the procedural
twists and turns of an anyway-doomed piece of fatuous legislation that, even
were it enacted, could never bind a new Parliament? All we need to know is that
a restless and bitter minority among Tory MPs do not wish this Prime Minister
well. They never will. The better his chances of winning the next election, the
more - not less - furiously they will want to remove him. If he bends to them
they will call him weak and if he resists them they will call him deaf. Their
attacks will come in spasms.

I think the next may take the form of a clamour to make "pacts" or deals with
the insurgent party. In anticipation we, the sane, must get on to the front
foot. So here goes.

First, along with millions (I believe) of liberal Tory supporters, and millions
more still undecided, I will never vote for any Conservative candidates who pay
UKIP protection money by signing up to their policies in return for being given
a clear run. We must expose any such deals and punish at the ballot box those
who connive in them. It's simple. A vote for a Tory-UKIP collaborator is a vote
for UKIP.

Second, I will never support a Conservative Party that has made any kind of
national agreement with UKIP. Blackmailed by extremists, it could be blackmailed
again.

This week it began to appear that to cut any ice in Tory politics, you have to
cut up rough and treat your party like a bar-room brawl. Well, here it is in
bar-room language: cut a deal with UKIP, and I'm outta here. And (the Tories
would find) outta here too would be millions more.

The insurgents want to remake my party in their own image

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: If Conservatives give in to Farage's blackmail, they'll be blackmailed
again

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'Mrs Thatcher was shouting at me ... I felt the full weight of the handbag';
Lord Dobbs, political adviser turned author, is fighting a new battle over the
right to die, Rachel Sylvester and Alice Thomson write

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester; Alice Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1328 words


Michael Dobbs is the man who portrayed the loyalties and betrayals of politics
for a generation with his thriller House of Cards. His hero Francis Urquhart's
catchphrase - "You might say that, I couldn't possibly comment" - is still a
favourite with ministers.

The bestselling author was Margaret Thatcher's chief of staff and John Major's
deputy chairman before turning to writing. Now he is one of David Cameron's
Conservative peers - although, he tells us, he still has time for dinner with
Nigel Farage.

Lord Dobbs, 64, knows all about prime ministerial coups, Eurosceptic bastards
and tearoom tantrums. "I prefer plotters to loyalists," he says, "they're far
more interesting." But his latest campaign in the House of Lords is a
cross-party attempt to legalise assisted dying for terminally ill adults. "I am
one of these people who, when they see something that is absurd, gets involved,"
he says.

It was the very different deaths of his own parents that convinced him the
current situation was cruel as well as incoherent. He was a student in the US
when his mother fell ill with cancer in the 1970s. "I went to the hospital and
didn't recognise her," he recalls. "She had endured so many operations that had
hollowed her out. She was in great pain and could scarcely talk."

He had a totally different experience when his father died a few years later.
"When he got cancer, he went into the local hospice and he was totally
transformed. The last time I saw him, we shared a pint of beer and watched the
golf. He wasn't in pain because he had morphine. They weren't prolonging his
life, just bringing it to a gentle and dignified end. The contrast was
extraordinary."

Lord Dobbs has told his wife and children that, in his own case, the quality of
life is as important as the quantity. "I fundamentally believe we should have
the right to decide what happens at the end. I hope I will be in the position my
father was in, having had a chance to say 'Goodbye and thank you'. The end of
life is for others as well as for ourselves. Some people are still stuck in the
Victorian Gothic age - everything is dark corners, secrets, unpleasantness and
pain. It doesn't have to be like that."

The law must be changed, he thinks, to stop people being forced to go abroad if
they want to take control. "I would hate to end my life at Dignitas, away from
my family and my home. It's not a nice little chalet in the middle of a Swiss
wood, it's on an industrial estate." He is emphatic that it is the patient
rather than doctors or nurses who must make the decision. "This Bill doesn't
cover dementia and some people say that is a weakness, but you have to be
mentally competent. You have to be part of it. If you can drink barbiturates or
press a button for a lethal dose, even if you can blink, that should be used. It
needs to be dignified and your choice."

Any decision by a patient to end their life would have to be approved by two
doctors. "I know people are worried that the elderly could be pressured into
it," he says. "There is a cooling off period too and you have to be within six
months of death. It's for people in real pain and misery who know exactly what
they are doing. This is not a slippery slope but a recognition of what people
seem to be demanding."

As the House of Lords prepares to debate the ethics of dying, in the House of
Commons this week the Tories seemed to be displaying a political death wish as
they embarked on another bout of infighting about Europe. Having been at John
Major's side during the Maastricht rebellion, Lord Dobbs must have a gloomy
sense of history repeating itself. He insists, though, that it is the European
Union rather than the Conservative Party that is really tearing itself apart
now.

"We joined it for peace and prosperity and it's delivered none of that and it
was inevitable that it could not deliver that because it is not constructed in
the right way ... The eurozone cannot possibly succeed or survive in its present
form." He believes that the Prime Minister is right to try to renegotiate a new
relationship with the EU, rather than holding an immediate "in-out" referendum.
"We must give it an opportunity to have the discussion so that it can be made
much more flexible and competitive. But if it doesn't succeed in that then I
would certainly be one of those saying 'I do not wish to participate in an
undemocratic, inefficient and unfair situation'."

The Tories need to confront and deal with the issue, he says. "It's been
bedevilling us for so long that I think it's time we get it decided and
resolved." But the party does seem particularly addicted to plotting. "I suppose
we've got rid of more of our leaders than the Labour Party has but most prime
ministers get hacked, chopped and dragged out of office. It's extraordinary that
they never know when to go. David Cameron eventually will probably go the same
way at some point."

This Tory peer understands the appeal of UKIP. "I find Nigel Farage a delightful
character," he says. "I love his company. He's a man who's upfront, he doesn't
sit back and think, 'Now what answer should I give to this?'" Lord Dobbs says
the Tories would be foolish to ignore the UKIP threat. "It's such a big protest
party that we have to listen to what's going on out there." He is attracted by
the idea of candidates standing at the next election on a joint
Conservative-UKIP ticket, an idea put forward by Nadine Dorries.

"That is very interesting," he says. "In principle I could certainly see
circumstances in which a joint candidacy would be no bad thing. I wouldn't rule
it out." He would prefer an outright Tory win, but says: "We are in a coalition
government at the moment ... Would I prefer to be in coalition with UKIP? I
would find it easier having a pint with Nigel Farage than with Nick Clegg, put
it that way." The voters are, he thinks, yearning for strong leadership. "Most
successful politicians are never loved but they are respected."

Lord Dobbs admits that Lady Thatcher was a difficult boss. Shortly before the
1987 election, she launched a vitriolic attack on him. "She was absolutely
appalling - shouting, almost frothing at the mouth. It was really quite
terrifying. I felt the weight of the handbag. Willie Whitelaw came out of the
room and said, 'There's a woman who will never fight another election campaign'.
What he meant was that all great people sow the seeds of their own destruction."

It was, he says, a meeting that changed his life. Three weeks later, he sat down
and started scribbling notes for a novel. It turned into House of Cards. The
first thing he came up with were the initials for his character - "FU".

But he is relieved that a career change was forced on him. "I could have gone on
and become a serious politician, but I've been much better at being a father and
a family man and a writer than I would have been a minister. I think emotionally
I'm much better equipped for that job."

Michael Dobbs Curriculum vitae Born November 14, 1948 Educated Hertford Grammar
School; Christ Church, Oxford; Tufts University, Massachusetts Career Began
working for the Conservative Party in 1975, an adviser to Margaret Thatcher
1977-79. A speech writer, then special adviser for the Government and Tory chief
of staff 1986-87. Party deputy chairman 1994-95. Worked at advertising agency
Saatchi and Saatchi before becoming a writer, publishing House of Cards, the
first of a trilogy of political thrillers, in 1989. BBC adaptation won two
Baftas Family Married with four children Quick fire Borgen or The Politician's
Wife? Borgen - it's brilliant Othello or Twelfth Night? Othello Thatcher or
Major? Thatcher as PM, Major as a friend Loyalists or plotters? Plotters,
they're far more interesting. George Osborne or David Cameron? I know David
better Posh or pleb? Pleb White's or Shoreditch House? Shoreditch House because
I don't know it Steak and kidney pie or sushi? Steak and kidney pie Sunlounger
or skis? Skis Striver or idler? I'm a striver

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Dobbs worked for Margaret Thatcher and John Major and is watching
history repeat itself with Tory splits over Europe. He does not rule out a pact
with UKIP
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER DAVID BEBBER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My Week

BYLINE: David Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 530 words


Monday I'm in the White House. "From your villages and your towns," intones
Barack Obama. "From your stately homesteads and the patchwork tapestry of fields
you call home. Across the Atlantic you have flown; one leader to another. And
here you stand. Not really paying attention."

"Hmm?" I say. I'm sorry, I tell him.

It's all this Europe stuff. It's a bit distracting.

"Yeah," says Obama. "I read about that. Didn't really understand it."

It's quite simple, I explain. The party I lead, which doesn't follow me, is
angry that we're going to have a referendum because we want to, not because we
have to, following negotiations that haven't happened, and might not, on a
subject that doesn't interest voters but might cost us the election.

The President stares at me. "Look," he says, eventually. "Do you want to leave
Europe or not?" "Hell, yes," I say. "Whenever I can. Why do you think I'm here?"
"I was wondering," says the President.

own. I show him a photograph I'm planning to tweet, of me in the Oval Office
with Barack Obama. He shows me one he took of Miss America's bottom, while he
was pretending to tie his shoelace.

"Wouldn't tweet that," I say. "Anyway," says the Prince. "Were you at my school?
Totally recognise you."

"Yes," I say. "Obviously. But I'm also Prime Minister."

"Of America?" he says. "No," I say.

"So why are you here?" he says. "Don't you start," I say.

Wednesday Leaving tonight. At home, Parliament has rejected an obscure amendment
relating to an EU referendum. The moment I hear, I call Barack Obama.

"Why would I care?" he says.

"This is important stuff," I tell him.

Obama says he's a bit busy. The IRS has been targeting Tea Party groups, Syria
might be using chemical weapons, and his administration is rocked by accusations
that they launched a cover-up over a deadly attack in Benghazi.

"Could be worse!" I say. "You could be getting mildly criticised by Nadine
Dorries!" The President says he doesn't even know who that is.

"See?" I say.

Thursday Back into the office. "So," I say.

"Europe fuss over yet?" "Nope," says George. "It's been awful. We're all
planning for life after coalition."

"At least you'll have a life after coalition," says Nick, miserably.

"But I was in America!" I say. "With the leader of the free world! And Prince
Harry! I ought to be entirely untarnished!" George says nobody really noticed.
Everybody just thought I was hiding at home, being weak.

"Hell," I say. "Maybe I should go somewhere else."

"Edinburgh's nice," says Nick.

Friday I call Obama again. "I thought you might like to know," I tell him. "An
obscure Conservative backbencher has won the Private Member's Bill ballot! So I
might be off the hook!" "In my office and my bedroom," says the President. "At
the gym and in the bath. I am thinking. About changing my number." I'm really
sorry, I say. I haven't anybody else to talk to. Being in Washington was
supposed to make me look all heroic and statesmanlike. But nobody really paid
any attention.

"Did you tweet that photo yet?" says Obama.

"No!" I say. "Great plan! I'll do it now!" "Are you sure that's me?" he says,
after a while.

"Wait," I say. "No. That's Miss America. Bugger. How do you delete?" *according
to Hugo Rifkind

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tuesday Day two of my big America trip. This morning I'm riding through
New York on a big red bus with Prince Harry, who's here on a trip of his

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If Dave cuts a deal with UKIP I'm outta here;
Moderate Tories must tell Cameron to stop wobbling - and that they'll quit the
party if he has any truck with Farage

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1205 words


'G od," said an excited Tory after a fellow MP was pulled from the sawdust of
Thursday's Private Member's Bills tombola clutching a euro-referendum Bill,
"must be a eurosceptic."

No. God must favour the sane for He directed my steps that same night to a book
launch at the National Gallery where the totally sane Conservative MP for
Hereford, Jesse Norman, was unveiling his new study of Edmund Burke. And as I
walked across Trafalgar Square contemplating the great 18th-century liberal
conservative philosopher, God reminded me of the last time the Tory Right were
deafening us, and I quoted Burke on this page: "Because half a dozen
grasshoppers under a fern make the field ring with their importunate clink,
whilst thousands of great cattle reposed beneath the shadow of the British oak
chew the cud and are silent, pray do not imagine that those who make the noise
are the only inhabitants of the field."

What madness has seized my party? Is it only the noisy ones? Have the rest been
brainwashed? Or just scared into silence? If so, that silence is flattering the
hysterical minority. The silence must be broken. The Tory MPs keeping their
heads are more numerous than we may suppose; we need to hear them.

In January David Cameron, in clear and measured terms, stated his intention to
renegotiate the terms of Britain's membership of the European Union and to put
the offer to a referendum. This he would do - and could only do - if the country
returned him to Downing Street with the mandate and majority he would need.
Mandate; renegotiation; referendum: the sequence would hand Britain the in/out
referendum that some Tories have always sought. Eurosceptics and Europhobes
alike applauded that speech. Pro-European Tories could accept it too.

What has changed since? Has Europe grown new fangs since January? Are enemy
troops massing across the Channel? Have horns and tails been spotted on members
of the European Commission? Nothing has changed. But in a couple of by-elections
and some local elections where two thirds of the electorate did not even bother
to vote, a party of the hard right, whose only coherent message is that things
ain't what they used to be and it's all the fault of foreigners, scored some
notable gains in particular places.

And a substantial minority of the Conservative Party have gone completely off
their heads. They want to feed the monster that threatens them. Mr Cameron has
seemed to wobble, as though he thinks the monster could be sated. I draw the
conclusion that Mr Cameron does not feel strong enough to ignore pressure. Then
more moderate men and women must draw the lesson: they too must raise voices.
The Prime Minister must be told that to please one crowd he has alarmed another.
Sanity must not by its silence seem to surrender to a populist insurgency from
outside the party.

The leader of the populist insurgency has made it clear that he wants the
Conservative Party - that ancient, broad and even-tempered coalition of many
types, united by a suspicion of zealotry, socialism and hot-headed change, the
party that I joined when I was 19 and have stuck with in good times and bad,
through a succession of leaders of different ideological stripes - to sack our
decent, middle-of-the-road leader, the most popular political leader in the
country, and take an ideological leap ... to where? I could waste your time with
the insurgents' last manifesto: a 25 per cent flat rate of tax; smoking to be
allowed in pubs; doubling prison places; abolishing national insurance
contributions and increasing defence spending by £16 billion ... the whole
package, unmatched by serious spending cuts, yielding a debt of £120 billion.
But why bother, because - be fair - the insurgents make no serious pretence of
wanting to govern. Their leader lays claim to a very different ambition: to
remake the Conservative Party in his own image.

He would do this to the Tories much as Militant Tendency tried to it to Labour
in the 1980s: by intimidation, manipulation and infiltration. The insurgents now
menacing the Conservative Party brandish threats to split its vote and rob it of
office, while cultivating a fifth column of rightwingers within Tory ranks - a
mixture of witting conspirators and useful idiots - who will echo the shouts
from outside the walls. The shouts are clear. They want Mr Cameron to be ousted
by a right-wing, anti-European Tory leader and his moderate pragmatism replaced
by a reactionary philosophy every one of whose serious elements is forged in
anger, resentment or nostalgia.

A friend starting as a cub reporter for a diary column on a mid-market tabloid,
let's call it the Daily Brute, received a pep talk from his diary editor.
"Always remember on the Brute," he was told, "that the ideal news item will
leave our readers feeling a little bit angrier, or a little bit more afraid."

Fear and anger. Every politician seeking easy applause knows how easy it is to
milk it in this way and no party is wholly innocent of the habit. But the
Conservative Party I once joined understands deep down that the habit can be
addictive, the addiction destructive and the fruit bitter, so keeps it under
control. So mostly do Labour and the Liberal Democrats. We should be proud in
Britain to have three parties that, however fitfully, know cheap populism for
the monster that it is.

This week the monster was fed. Some contented burping will ensue. You can expect
a measure of calm to return as the monster digests and its friends within the
Tory ranks rest. But they'll be back. Upon what pretext the next attack is based
should be a matter of indifference to us: why bother to follow the procedural
twists and turns of an anyway-doomed piece of fatuous legislation that, even
were it enacted, could never bind a new Parliament? All we need to know is that
a restless and bitter minority among Tory MPs do not wish this Prime Minister
well. They never will. The better his chances of winning the next election, the
more - not less - furiously they will want to remove him. If he bends to them
they will call him weak and if he resists them they will call him deaf. Their
attacks will come in spasms.

I think the next may take the form of a clamour to make "pacts" or deals with
the insurgent party. In anticipation we, the sane, must get on to the front
foot. So here goes.

First, along with millions (I believe) of liberal Tory supporters, and millions
more still undecided, I will never vote for any Conservative candidates who pay
UKIP protection money by signing up to their policies in return for being given
a clear run. We must expose any such deals and punish at the ballot box those
who connive in them. It's simple. A vote for a Tory-UKIP collaborator is a vote
for UKIP.

Second, I will never support a Conservative Party that has made any kind of
national agreement with UKIP. Blackmailed by extremists, it could be blackmailed
again.

This week it began to appear that to cut any ice in Tory politics, you have to
cut up rough and treat your party like a bar-room brawl. Well, here it is in
bar-room language: cut a deal with UKIP, and I'm outta here. And (the Tories
would find) outta here too would be millions more.

The insurgents want to remake my party in their own image

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: If Conservatives give in to Farage's blackmail, they'll be blackmailed
again

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Mrs Thatcher was shouting at me ... I felt the full weight of the handbag';
Lord Dobbs, political adviser turned author, is fighting a new battle over the
right to die, Rachel Sylvester and Alice Thomson write

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester; Alice Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1325 words


Michael Dobbs is the man who portrayed the loyalties and betrayals of politics
for a generation with his thriller House of Cards. His hero Francis Urquhart's
catchphrase - "You might say that, I couldn't possibly comment" - is still a
favourite with ministers.

The bestselling author was Margaret Thatcher's chief of staff and John Major's
deputy chairman before turning to writing. Now he is one of David Cameron's
Conservative peers - although, he tells us, he still has time for dinner with
Nigel Farage.

Lord Dobbs, 64, knows all about prime ministerial coups, Eurosceptic bastards
and tearoom tantrums. "I prefer plotters to loyalists," he says, "they're far
more interesting." But his latest campaign in the House of Lords is a
cross-party attempt to legalise assisted dying for terminally ill adults. "I am
one of these people who, when they see something that is absurd, gets involved,"
he says.

It was the very different deaths of his own parents that convinced him the
current situation was cruel as well as incoherent. He was a student in the US
when his mother fell ill with cancer in the 1970s. "I went to the hospital and
didn't recognise her," he recalls. "She had endured so many operations that had
hollowed her out. She was in great pain and could scarcely talk."

He had a totally different experience when his father died a few years later.
"When he got cancer, he went into the local hospice and he was totally
transformed. The last time I saw him, we shared a pint of beer and watched the
golf. He wasn't in pain because he had morphine. They weren't prolonging his
life, just bringing it to a gentle and dignified end. The contrast was
extraordinary."

Lord Dobbs has told his wife and children that, in his own case, the quality of
life is as important as the quantity. "I fundamentally believe we should have
the right to decide what happens at the end. I hope I will be in the position my
father was in, having had a chance to say 'Goodbye and thank you'. The end of
life is for others as well as for ourselves. Some people are still stuck in the
Victorian Gothic age - everything is dark corners, secrets, unpleasantness and
pain. It doesn't have to be like that."

The law must be changed, he thinks, to stop people being forced to go abroad if
they want to take control. "I would hate to end my life at Dignitas, away from
my family and my home. It's not a nice little chalet in the middle of a Swiss
wood, it's on an industrial estate." He is emphatic that it is the patient
rather than doctors or nurses who must make the decision. "This Bill doesn't
cover dementia and some people say that is a weakness, but you have to be
mentally competent. You have to be part of it. If you can drink barbiturates or
press a button for a lethal dose, even if you can blink, that should be used. It
needs to be dignified and your choice."

Any decision by a patient to end their life would have to be approved by two
doctors. "I know people are worried that the elderly could be pressured into
it," he says. "There is a cooling off period too and you have to be within six
months of death. It's for people in real pain and misery who know exactly what
they are doing. This is not a slippery slope but a recognition of what people
seem to be demanding."

As the House of Lords prepares to debate the ethics of dying, in the House of
Commons this week the Tories seemed to be displaying a political death wish as
they embarked on another bout of infighting about Europe. Having been at John
Major's side during the Maastricht rebellion, Lord Dobbs must have a gloomy
sense of history repeating itself. He insists, though, that it is the European
Union rather than the Conservative Party that is really tearing itself apart
now.

"We joined it for peace and prosperity and it's delivered none of that and it
was inevitable that it could not deliver that because it is not constructed in
the right way ... The eurozone cannot possibly succeed or survive in its present
form." He believes that the Prime Minister is right to try to renegotiate a new
relationship with the EU, rather than holding an immediate "in-out" referendum.
"We must give it an opportunity to have the discussion so that it can be made
much more flexible and competitive. But if it doesn't succeed in that then I
would certainly be one of those saying 'I do not wish to participate in an
undemocratic, inefficient and unfair situation'."

The Tories need to confront and deal with the issue, he says. "It's been
bedevilling us for so long that I think it's time we get it decided and
resolved." But the party does seem particularly addicted to plotting. "I suppose
we've got rid of more of our leaders than the Labour Party has but most prime
ministers get hacked, chopped and dragged out of office. It's extraordinary that
they never know when to go. David Cameron eventually will probably go the same
way at some point."

This Tory peer understands the appeal of UKIP. "I find Nigel Farage a delightful
character," he says. "I love his company. He's a man who's upfront, he doesn't
sit back and think, 'Now what answer should I give to this?'" Lord Dobbs says
the Tories would be foolish to ignore the UKIP threat. "It's such a big protest
party that we have to listen to what's going on out there." He is attracted by
the idea of candidates standing at the next election on a joint
Conservative-UKIP ticket, an idea put forward by Nadine Dorries. "That is very
interesting," he says. "In principle I could certainly see circumstances in
which a joint candidacy would be no bad thing. I wouldn't rule it out." He would
prefer an outright Tory win, but says: "We are in a coalition government at the
moment ... Would I prefer to be in coalition with UKIP? I would find it easier
having a pint with Nigel Farage than with Nick Clegg, put it that way." The
voters are, he thinks, yearning for strong leadership. "Most successful
politicians are never loved but they are respected."

Lord Dobbs admits that Lady Thatcher was a difficult boss. Shortly before the
1987 election, she launched a vitriolic attack on him. "She was absolutely
appalling - shouting, almost frothing at the mouth. It was really quite
terrifying. I felt the weight of the handbag. Willie Whitelaw came out of the
room and said, 'There's a woman who will never fight another election campaign'.
What he meant was that all great people sow the seeds of their own destruction."

It was, he says, a meeting that changed his life. Three weeks later, he sat down
and started scribbling notes for a novel. It turned into House of Cards. The
first thing he came up with were the initials for his character - "FU".

But he is relieved that a career change was forced on him. "I could have gone on
and become a serious politician, but I've been much better at being a father and
a family man and a writer than I would have been a minister. I think emotionally
I'm much better equipped for that job."

Michael Dobbs

Curriculum vitae Born November 14, 1948 Educated Hertford Grammar School; Christ
Church, Oxford; Tufts University,

Massachusetts

Career Began working for the Conservative Party in 1975, an adviser to Margaret
Thatcher 1977-79. A speech writer, then special adviser for the Government and
Tory chief of staff 1986-87. Party deputy chairman 1994-95. Worked at
advertising agency Saatchi and Saatchi before becoming a writer, publishing
House of Cards, the first of a trilogy of political thrillers, in 1989. BBC
adaptation won two Baftas Family Married with four children

Quick fire Borgen or The Politician's Wife?

Borgen - it's brilliant

Othello or Twelfth Night? Othello

Thatcher or Major? Thatcher as PM, Major as a friend

Loyalists or plotters?

Plotters, they're far more interesting.

George Osborne or David Cameron?

I know David better

Posh or pleb? Pleb

White's or Shoreditch House?

Shoreditch House because I don't know it

Steak and kidney pie or sushi?

Steak and kidney pie

Sunlounger or skis?

Skis

Striver or idler?

I'm a striver

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Dobbs worked for Margaret Thatcher and John Major and is watching
history repeat itself with Tory splits over Europe. He does not rule out a pact
with UKIP
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER DAVID BEBBER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory 'loons' attacked by close ally of Cameron;
MPs' Europe revolt blamed on party activists ; Cameron aide attacks local Tories
as 'swivel-eyed loons'

BYLINE: Sam Coates; Laura Pitel; Ruth Gledhill; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 872 words


Tory activists are "mad, swivel-eyed loons", according to one of David Cameron's
closest allies.

The incendiary comment made at a private dinner this week is likely to plunge
relations between the Prime Minister and his party to a new low.

It offers a rare insight into the disregard and irritation felt by the Prime
Minister's inner circle towards Conservative Party members up and down the
country.

The senior figure, who has strong social connections to the Prime Minister and
close links to the party machine, blamed grassroots members for the rebellion by
MPs on Europe this week.

Asked about Wednesday's vote in which 116 Conservative MPs voted against the
Queen's Speech, the figure said: "It's fine. There's really no problem. The MPs
just have to do it because the associations tell them to, and the associations
are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

The remarks will worsen the rift between Mr Cameron and his party amid pressure
from the Tory Right, who bounced the Prime Minister into publishing a draft
referendum Bill on EU membership last week.

The comments are likely to wound an already demoralised activist base, which
plays a critical role determining the party's fortunes at election time. The
last published membership figure was 177,000 in March 2011. Tory party
membership through most of the 1980s was 1.2 million, according to Commons
estimates.

"This sums up why David Cameron has so many problems with his party: because he
and his entourage don't like it very much," Paul Goodman, editor of the
Conservative Home website, said. "It smacks of the way a trendy metropolitan
couple might treat their embarrassing elderly relatives turning up at a party
for their West Kensington friends.

"What this suggests is that Downing Street hasn't grasped the distrust and
dislike that runs through a big swath of the parliamentary party."

Mr Cameron is girding himself for another battle with his own side over gay
marriage legislation when it returns to the Commons next week.

At least two Cabinet ministers are preparing to challenge the Prime Minister by
siding with rebels. Chris Grayling, the Justice Secretary, backs amendments that
would give legal protections to marriage registrars, teachers and other public
sector workers who do not agree with same-sex weddings.

and David Jones, the Welsh Secretary, is expected to oppose the entire Bill with
dozens of Tory MPs. Rebels Continued on page 6, col 4

Continued from page 1 also expect Owen Paterson to side with them on certain
amendments as well as opposing the legislation, but sources close to the
Environment Secretary said last night that that was not the case.

Philip Hammond openly challenged Mr Cameron for prioritising the legislation.

"There is a real sense of anger among many people who are married that any
government thinks it has the ability to change the definition of an institution
like marriage," the Defence Secretary told Question Time on BBC1.

The Prime Minister rebuffed Mr Hammond's assertion that too much time had been
spent on gay marriage. His spokesman said: "The Prime Minister's position is
that he is a big believer in marriage - that's why he thinks gay people should
be able to get married too."

Vincent Nichols, the Archbishop of Westminster and the leader of Roman Catholics
in England and Wales, warned that the Government's reform "poses grave risks to
freedom of speech and freedom of religion".

Archbishop Nichols will preach on the subject at the annual diocesan marriage
Mass in Westminster Cathedral today, which 600 married couples are expected to
attend.

Ministers sought to buy off a revolt on the issue this week with a review of the
Civil Partnerships Act which would either abolish or extend the unions, but the
idea was roundly dismissed by MPs on all sides of the House.

Separately, Mr Cameron came under pressure to allow joint Tory-UKIP candidates
at the next election from a former deputy chairman of the party. Lord Dobbs told
The Times that Tories may need to seek the endorsement of Nigel Farage to
protect them from voters who doubted Mr Cameron's European strategy.

"In principle I could certainly see circumstances in which a joint candidacy
would be no bad thing," he said. "I wouldn't rule it out. We changed the law to
allow it."

A handful of MPs from the Right, including Nadine Dorries, Peter Bone and Philip
Hollobone, want to explore the idea of securing a UKIP endorsement at the next
election. New rules allow candidates' names on ballot papers to be accompanied
by two party logos.

The Tory high command tried to stamp on the idea, threatening to withhold
nomination papers from anyone seeking a joint ticket. However, pressure from a
small number of MPs is threatening to develop into a new cause of anger between
the Downing Street and the backbenches.

Lord Dobbs said that if by 2015 Mr Cameron's European strategy - of securing a
"new deal" for Britain in Brussels based more on trade - was failing to bear
fruit some Tory candidates may need the protection of a UKIP endorsement. He
said: "If we have made no progress on renegotiation by the time of the next
election, ignoring UKIP and what they stand for and what people out there are
saying about it would be extremely difficult."

Continued from page 1 also [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "It's pushing me into bed with Nigel Farage"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory 'loons' attacked by close ally of Cameron;
MPs' Europe revolt blamed on party activists ; Cameron aide attacks local Tories
as 'swivel-eyed loons'

BYLINE: Sam Coates; Laura Pitel Ruth Gledhill; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 879 words


Tory activists are "mad, swivel-eyed loons", according to one of David Cameron's
closest allies.

The incendiary comment made at a private dinner this week is likely to plunge
relations between the Prime Minister and his party to a new low.

It offers a rare insight into the disregard and irritation felt by the Prime
Minister's inner circle towards Conservative Party members up and down the
country.

The senior figure, who has strong social connections to the Prime Minister and
close links to the party machine, blamed grassroots members for the rebellion by
MPs on Europe this week.

Asked about Wednesday's vote in which 116 Conservative MPs voted against the
Queen's Speech, the figure said: "It's fine. There's really no problem. The MPs
just have to do it because the associations tell them to, and the associations
are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

The remarks will worsen the rift between Mr Cameron and his party amid pressure
from the Tory Right, who bounced the Prime Minister into publishing a draft
referendum Bill on EU membership last week.

The comments are likely to wound an already demoralised activist base, which
plays a critical role determining the party's fortunes at election time. The
last published membership figure was 177,000 in March 2011. Tory party
membership through most of the 1980s was 1.2 million, according to Commons
estimates.

"This sums up why David Cameron has so many problems with his party: because he
and his entourage don't like it very much," Paul Goodman, editor of the
Conservative Home website, said. "It smacks of the way a trendy metropolitan
couple might treat their embarrassing elderly relatives turning up at a party
for their West Kensington friends.

"What this suggests is that Downing Street hasn't grasped the distrust and
dislike that runs through a big swath of the parliamentary party."

Mr Cameron is girding himself for another battle with his own side over gay
marriage legislation when it returns to the Commons next week.

At least two Cabinet ministers are preparing to challenge the Prime Minister by
siding with rebels. Chris Grayling, the Justice Secretary, backs amendments that
would give legal protections to marriage registrars, teachers and other public
sector workers who do not agree with same-sex weddings, and David Jones, the
Welsh Secretary, is expected to oppose the entire Bill with dozens of Tory MPs.
Rebels Continued on page 6, col 4

Continued from page 1 also expect Owen Paterson to side with them on certain
amendments as well as opposing the legislation, but sources close to the
Environment Secretary said last night that that was not the case.

Philip Hammond openly challenged Mr Cameron for prioritising the legislation.

"There is a real sense of anger among many people who are married that any
government thinks it has the ability to change the definition of an institution
like marriage," the Defence Secretary told Question Time on BBC1.

The Prime Minister rebuffed Mr Hammond's assertion that too much time had been
spent on gay marriage. His spokesman said: "The Prime Minister's position is
that he is a big believer in marriage - that's why he thinks gay people should
be able to get married, too."

The Church of England opposed changes to civil partnerships yesterday, arguing
that they would cause "further confusion about the place of marriage in
society".

Vincent Nichols, the Archbishop of Westminster and the leader of Roman Catholics
in England and Wales, warned that the Government's reform "poses grave risks to
freedom of speech and freedom of religion". He will preach on the subject at the
annual diocesan marriage Mass in Westminster Cathedral today, which 600 married
couples are expected to attend.

Ministers sought to buy off a revolt on the issue this week with a review of the
Civil Partnerships Act, which would either abolish or extend the unions, but the
idea was roundly dismissed by MPs on all sides of the House.

Separately, Mr Cameron came under pressure to allow joint Tory-UKIP candidates
at the next election from a former deputy chairman of the party. Lord Dobbs told
The Times that Tories may need to seek the endorsement of Nigel Farage to
protect them from voters who doubted Mr Cameron's European strategy.

"In principle I could certainly see circumstances in which a joint candidacy
would be no bad thing," he said. "I wouldn't rule it out. We changed the law to
allow it."

A handful of MPs from the Right, including Nadine Dorries, Peter Bone and Philip
Hollobone, want to explore the idea of securing a UKIP endorsement at the next
election. New rules allow candidates' names on ballot papers to be accompanied
by two party logos.

The Tory high command threatened to withhold nomination papers from anyone
seeking a joint ticket. However, pressure from a small number of MPs is
threatening to develop into a new cause of anger between the Downing Street and
the backbenches. Lord Dobbs said that, if by 2015 Mr Cameron's European strategy
- of securing a "new deal" for Britain in Brussels based more on trade - was
failing to bear fruit, some Tory candidates may need the protection of a UKIP
endorsement. He said: "Ignoring UKIP and what they stand for and what people out
there are saying about it would be extremely difficult."

Continued from page 1 also [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "It's pushing me into bed with Nigel Farage"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

My Week

BYLINE: David Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 530 words


Monday I'm in the White House. "From your villages and your towns," intones
Barack Obama. "From your stately homesteads and the patchwork tapestry of fields
you call home. Across the Atlantic you have flown; one leader to another. And
here you stand. Not really paying attention."

"Hmm?" I say. I'm sorry, I tell him.

It's all this Europe stuff. It's a bit distracting.

"Yeah," says Obama. "I read about that. Didn't really understand it."

It's quite simple, I explain. The party I lead, which doesn't follow me, is
angry that we're going to have a referendum because we want to, not because we
have to, following negotiations that haven't happened, and might not, on a
subject that doesn't interest voters but might cost us the election.

The President stares at me. "Look," he says, eventually. "Do you want to leave
Europe or not?" "Hell, yes," I say. "Whenever I can. Why do you think I'm here?"
"I was wondering," says the President.

own. I show him a photograph I'm planning to tweet, of me in the Oval Office
with Barack Obama. He shows me one he took of Miss America's bottom, while he
was pretending to tie his shoelace.

"Wouldn't tweet that," I say. "Anyway," says the Prince. "Were you at my school?
Totally recognise you."

"Yes," I say. "Obviously. But I'm also Prime Minister."

"Of America?" he says. "No," I say.

"So why are you here?" he says. "Don't you start," I say.

Wednesday Leaving tonight. At home, Parliament has rejected an obscure amendment
relating to an EU referendum. The moment I hear, I call Barack Obama.

"Why would I care?" he says.

"This is important stuff," I tell him.

Obama says he's a bit busy. The IRS has been targeting Tea Party groups, Syria
might be using chemical weapons, and his Administration is rocked by accusations
that they launched a cover-up over a deadly attack in Benghazi.

"Could be worse!" I say. "You could be getting mildly criticised by Nadine
Dorries!" The President says he doesn't even know who that is.

"See?" I say.

Thursday Back into the office. "So," I say.

"Europe fuss over yet?" "Nope," says George. "It's been awful. We're all
planning for life after coalition."

"At least you'll have a life after coalition," says Nick, miserably.

"But I was in America!" I say. "With the leader of the free world! And Prince
Harry! I ought to be entirely untarnished!" George says nobody really noticed.
Everybody just thought I was hiding at home, being weak.

"Hell," I say. "Maybe I should go somewhere else."

"Edinburgh's nice," says Nick.

Friday I call Obama again. "I thought you might like to know," I tell him. "An
obscure Conservative backbencher has won the Private Member's Bill ballot! So I
might be off the hook!" "In my office and my bedroom," says the President. "At
the gym and in the bath. I am thinking. About changing my number." I'm really
sorry, I say. I haven't anybody else to talk to. Being in Washington was
supposed to make me look all heroic and statesmanlike. But nobody really paid
any attention.

"Did you tweet that photo yet?" says Obama.

"No!" I say. "Great plan! I'll do it now!" "Are you sure that's me?" he says,
after a while.

"Wait," I say. "No. That's Miss America. Bugger. How do you delete?" *according
to Hugo Rifkind

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tuesday Day two of my big America trip. This morning I'm riding through
New York on a big red bus with Prince Harry, who's here on a trip of his

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory 'loons' attacked by close ally of Cameron;
MPs' Europe revolt blamed on party activists ; Cameron aide attacks local Tories
as 'swivel-eyed loons'

BYLINE: Sam Coates; Laura Pitel; Ruth Gledhill; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 871 words


Tory activists are "mad, swivel-eyed loons", according to one of David Cameron's
closest allies.

The incendiary comment made at a private dinner this week is likely to plunge
relations between the Prime Minister and his party to a new low.

It offers a rare insight into the disregard and irritation felt by the Prime
Minister's inner circle towards Tory party members up and down the country.

The senior figure, who has strong social connections to the Prime Minister and
close links to the party machine, blamed grassroots members for the rebellion by
MPs this week on Europe.

Asked about Wednesday's vote in which 116 Conservative MPs voted against the
Queen's Speech, the figure said. "It's fine. There's really no problem. The MPs
just have to do it because the associations tell them to, and the associations
are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

The remarks will worsen the rift between Mr Cameron and his party amid pressure
from the Tory Right, who bounced the Prime Minister into publishing a draft
referendum bill on EU membership last week.

The comments are likely to wound an already demoralised activist base, which
plays a critical role determining the party's fortunes at election time. The
last published membership figure was 177,000 in March 2011. Tory party
membership through most of the 1980s was 1.2 million, according to Commons
estimates.

"This sums up why David Cameron has so many problems with his party: because he
and his entourage don't like it very much," Paul Goodman, editor of the
Conservative Home website, said. "It smacks of the way a trendy metropolitan
couple might treat their embarrassing elderly relatives turning up at a party
for their West Kensington friends.

"What this suggests is that Downing Street hasn't grasped the distrust and
dislike that runs through a big swath of the parliamentary party."

Mr Cameron is girding himself for another battle with his own side over
gay-marriage legislation when it returns to the Commons next week.

At least two Cabinet ministers are preparing to challenge the Prime Minister's
by siding with rebels. Chris Grayling, the Justice Secretary, backs amendments
that would give legal protections to marriage registrars, teachers and other
public sector workers who do not agree with same-sex weddings.

and David Jones, the Welsh Secretary, is expected to oppose the entire Bill with
dozens of Tory MPs. Rebels Continued on page 6, col 4

Continued from page 1 also expect Owen Paterson to side with them on certain
amendments as well as opposing the legislation, but sources close to the
Environment Secretary said last night that that was not the case.

Philip Hammond openly challenged Mr Cameron for prioritising the legislation.

"There is a real sense of anger among many people who are married that any
government thinks it has the ability to change the definition of an institution
like marriage," the Defence Secretary told Question Time on BBC1.

The Prime Minister rebuffed Mr Hammond's assertion that too much time had been
spent on gay marriage. His spokesman said: "The Prime Minister's position is
that he is a big believer in marriage - that's why he thinks gay people should
be able to get married too."

Vincent Nichols, the Archbishop of Westminster and the leader of Roman Catholics
in England and Wales, warned that the Government's reform "poses grave risks to
freedom of speech and freedom of religion".

Archbishop Nichols will preach on the subject at the annual diocesan marriage
Mass in Westminster Cathedral today, which 600 married couples are expected to
attend.

Ministers sought to buy off a revolt on the issue this week with a review of the
Civil Partnerships Act which would either abolish or extend the unions, but the
idea was roundly dismissed by MPs on all sides of the House.

Separately, Mr Cameron came under pressure to allow joint Tory-UKIP candidates
at the next election from a former deputy chairman of the party. Lord Dobbs told
The Times that Tories may need to seek the endorsement of Nigel Farage to
protect them from voters who doubted Mr Cameron's European strategy.

"In principle I could certainly see circumstances in which a joint candidacy
would be no bad thing," he said. "I wouldn't rule it out. We changed the law to
allow it."

A handful of MPs from the Right, including Nadine Dorries, Peter Bone and Philip
Hollobone, want to explore the idea of securing a UKIP endorsement at the next
election. New rules allow candidates' names on ballot papers to be accompanied
by two party logos.

The Tory high command tried to stamp on the idea, threatening to withhold
nomination papers from anyone seeking a joint ticket. However, pressure from a
small number of MPs is threatening to develop into a new cause of anger between
the Downing Street and the backbenches.

Lord Dobbs said that if by 2015 Mr Cameron's European strategy - of securing a
"new deal" for Britain in Brussels based more on trade - was failing to bear
fruit some Tory candidates may need the protection of a UKIP endorsement. He
said: "If we have made no progress on renegotiation by the time of the next
election, ignoring UKIP and what they stand for and what people out there are
saying about it would be extremely difficult."

Continued from page 1 also [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "It's pushing me into bed with Nigel Farage"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Britain and Europe;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 160 words


Sir, Robert Rhodes, QC (letter, May 16), suggests that passing an Act of
Parliament now providing for an EU referendum in 2017 is pointless, because an
incoming government in 2015 could repeal it.

This may be legally correct, but it ignores the political reality that no
governing party or parties will want to incur the opprobrium involved in
actively denying the electorate the chance to vote on this issue for the first
time since 1975. It is one thing to refuse a referendum, it is another to cancel
it. john sharpe Tyning, Somerset Sir, I am at a loss to understand why so much
exposure is given to the Eurosceptics. They claim to speak for the British
people in their blind hatred of Brussels and of all things stemming from the
continent in which we belong by geography, history and common sense.

They do not speak for me or, I suspect, for the silent majority. Our future in
Europe demands less posturing and more serious debate. k. wollaston Bramley,
Surrey

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Voters accuse Cameron of putting tactics before beliefs

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Billy Kenber; Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 795 words


David Cameron's shift on Europe this week could backfire because voters believe
he is acting through calculation rather than core belief, according to a poll.
Only 17 per cent of voters think the Prime Minister feels strongly about his
European strategy while 64 per cent think he is motivated by tactics.

Even Tory voters believe that, on the question of Europe, tactical
considerations outweigh Mr Cameron's convictions by a 45-44 split.

The YouGov findings show a significant majority of voters respect politicians
who follow their principles rather than court popularity.

More than half of voters (53 per cent) have more respect for leaders who do what
they think is right even if it is unpopular.

By contrast, 23 per cent prefer those who tailor policies to appeal to voters
even if they go against what they believe in.

The findings came as the youngest Tory MP emerged as the public face of the
party's tussle over Europe. James Wharton, the 29-year-old MP for Stockton
South, topped the annual ballot for Private Members' Bills and said he would
adopt the draft Bill hastily produced by Mr Cameron this week.

The Bill would enshrine in law the Prime Minister's promised in-out EU
referendum before the end of 2017. More than half of Tory backbenches voted
against the Queen's Speech this week because it lacked such a measure.

Tory high command yesterday threw its full weight behind Mr Wharton's Bill,
saying Tory MPs would be whipped in support, highly unusual for a Private
Member's Bill.

It will be debated first on July 5 but has little chance of becoming law because
it is easy for MPs opposed to block such a measure unless it is given government
time in the Commons, something which the Liberal Democrats are refusing to give.
Labour will also whip their MPs against.

The poll for The Times shows that only Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, is
credited by voters, by 55-22, with acting on Europe through strong belief rather
than calculation. A similar majority, 52-20, think Ed Miliband puts calculation
ahead of conviction on Europe. Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, said: "The
risk for David Cameron is that he could end up losing more votes by appearing
unprincipled than he gains from adopting a stance on the EU that appears to be
closer to the public mood." He added that any shift by Mr Miliband towards
supporting a referendum, which the Labour leader is currently ruling out, could
also backfire. David Lidington, the Europe Minister, yesterday gave a glimpse of
Mr Cameron's negotiating hand in Europe when he called for national parliaments
to be allowed to block new laws from Brussels.

Mr Lidington, speaking at a conference in Berlin attended by Angela Merkel, the
German Chancellor, called for a new system of "red cards" that would allow MPs
to veto proposals from the European Commission.

President Hollande of France warned Mr Cameron yesterday that attempts to
reclaim powers from the EU would risk breaking up the Union.

Apparently alluding to Britain, he also said that "the main risk for Europe is
that national selfishness wins over the interests of Europe".

He took a swipe at the UK economy, pointing out that Mr Cameron had imposed
austerity as harsh as that in the eurozone and it had performed as poorly,
suffering recession "virtually the same" as the eurozone.

Three ways forward Staying together for the sake of the kids Both sides use the
final 12 months to campaign against each other from across the Cabinet table.

Effect More temper tantrums but the Lib Dems reach the finishing line, claim to
be a grown-up party of government and share credit for any pick-up in the
economy. Ed Miliband keeps hold of disenchanted former Lib Dems.

An amicable divorce Nick Clegg shakes hands with David Cameron next summer and
says that he can no longer govern with a party consumed by Europe.

Effect Lib Dems support a minority Tory government on a "confidence and supply"
basis, supporting the Budget, pledging not to trigger an early election. Mr
Clegg, under pressure to give the party pre-election distance from the Tories,
could begin to "de-taint" the Lib Dem brand and adopt a position between the
Tories and Labour. However, he stands accused of lacking seriousness about
government. The exit may coincide with a pick-up in the economy, leaving George
Osborne to claim credit. Mr Cameron could appoint 20 new Tory ministers and
improve party morale.

An acrimonious split Mr Clegg is ousted after disastrous European elections next
June, the Lib Dems go into opposition, Vince Cable is elected leader at the
party conference. Effect Dr Cable puts distance between himself and Mr Cameron
and starts flirting with Labour.

Lib Dem deserters start to return, hitting Labour's poll numbers and encouraging
Tories in marginals that they might cling on.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Housey-housey has never been so tense

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 523 words


Welcome to Eurovision, Westminster style. I had no idea when I went along to the
Private Member's Bill ballot yesterday that it was going to be so much fun. For
this is not a ballot at all. It's more a raffle, with a bit of bingo thrown in
and also darts, as in when they bellow "One Hundred and Eighty!" Our Master of
Ceremonies was Lindsay Hoyle, the Deputy Speaker whose sense of fun and
Lancashire accent are proving a huge hit these days. He had a glamorous
assistant, of course. Tall, thin, dressed as a penguin with a white bow-tie, his
real name was David Natzler and he was Clerk of Legislation but, of course, we
started to call him Debbie.

"ORDER ORDER!" shouted Mr Hoyle. Next to him Debbie opened a battered black
dispatch box which looked like something from a boot fair except it had EiiR on
it. Inside was a nest of bits of paper, just the right size to be Chinese
takeaway fortunes except, instead, they all had numbers.

The Eurovision set was extremely grand, as befits a ceremony of such
constitutional importance to our nation. Committee Room 10 overlooks the Thames
with red wallpaper of such deep flock that I expected to hear it go "baaaa" at
any minute. At one end was a huge painting entitled Alfred Inciting the Saxons
to Prevent the Landing of the Danes. Even the art was Eurosceptic.

The "audience" was made up mostly of Tory MPs desperate to have their number
picked so they could introduce an EU Referendum Bill. But the snag was that it
wasn't good enough to just be picked. There would be 20 numbers picked but only
the top few had a hope in hell (technical term) of securing a debate.

Lindsay boomed: "Number 20!" Debbie, after rummaging, almost tremulous, trilled:
"214!" Lindsay consulted the oracle that was his list. "Dr Matthew Offord!" he
boomed. We all looked blank. Obscure doesn't even begin to cover it.

The next number picked was "212". Lindsay did not like that. "I think we better
shake 'em up," he ordered. Debbie fluffed the bits of paper a bit.

The countdown continued with Lindsay getting more and more enthusiastic. "Sir
Malcolm Bruuuuuuce!" he cried when the Lib-Dem nabbed a slot. When he got number
13, he noted: "Unlucky for some!" Through it all, the Eurosceptics examined
their lists with the urgency and focus of people conducting brain surgery. You
have to admire the sheer tenacity of the Euro-obsessive.

"The excitement and tension is growing!" boomed Lindsay as we approached the
great moment. Number three was Tory Jonathan Lord, a Euro-rebel, and number two
was a Labour MP.

"Shake 'em up!" cried Lindsay as the big moment arrived. "The winner of the day
is ... " "One hundred and ninety-nine," announced Debbie.

"Oooohhhhh!" cried the audience. Lindsay flipped through his list. "James
Wharton!" We looked at each other. Who? Still, within minutes, we were being
flooded with information about Mr Wharton. He was the young (aged 29) Tory from
Stockton and a Eurosceptic. His majority was tiny (332) and he had made the news
for being linked with a company that sells stone statues of giant penises.

Sorry, but it's true. It may not be in the best taste but, then, this IS
Eurovision.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Wharton, not an unknown MP any more

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain and Europe;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 160 words


Sir, Robert Rhodes, QC (letter, May 16), suggests that passing an Act of
Parliament now providing for an EU referendum in 2017 is pointless, because an
incoming government in 2015 could repeal it.

This may be legally correct, but it ignores the political reality that no
governing party or parties will want to incur the opprobrium involved in
actively denying the electorate the chance to vote on this issue for the first
time since 1975. It is one thing to refuse a referendum, it is another to cancel
it. john sharpe Tyning, Somerset Sir, I am at a loss to understand why so much
exposure is given to the Eurosceptics. They claim to speak for the British
people in their blind hatred of Brussels and of all things stemming from the
continent in which we belong by geography, history and common sense.

They do not speak for me or, I suspect, for the silent majority. Our future in
Europe demands less posturing and more serious debate. k. wollaston Bramley,
Surrey

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Voters accuse Cameron of putting tactics before beliefs

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Billy Kenber; Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 795 words


David Cameron's shift on Europe this week could backfire because voters believe
he is acting through calculation rather than core belief, according to a poll.
Only 17 per cent of voters think the Prime Minister feels strongly about his
European strategy while 64 per cent think he is motivated by tactics.

Even Tory voters believe that, on the question of Europe, tactical
considerations outweigh Mr Cameron's convictions by a 45-44 split.

The YouGov findings show a significant majority of voters respect politicians
who follow their principles rather than court popularity.

More than half of voters (53 per cent) have more respect for leaders who do what
they think is right even if it is unpopular.

By contrast, 23 per cent prefer those who tailor policies to appeal to voters
even if they go against what they believe in.

The findings came as the youngest Tory MP emerged as the public face of the
party's tussle over Europe. James Wharton, the 29-year-old MP for Stockton
South, topped the annual ballot for Private Members' Bills and said he would
adopt the draft Bill hastily produced by Mr Cameron this week.

The Bill would enshrine in law the Prime Minister's promised in-out EU
referendum before the end of 2017. More than half of Tory backbenches voted
against the Queen's Speech this week because it lacked such a measure.

Tory high command yesterday threw its full weight behind Mr Wharton's Bill,
saying Tory MPs would be whipped in support, highly unusual for a Private
Member's Bill.

It will be debated first on July 5 but has little chance of becoming law because
it is easy for MPs opposed to block such a measure unless it is given government
time in the Commons, something which the Liberal Democrats are refusing to give.
Labour will also whip their MPs against.

The poll for The Times shows that only Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, is
credited by voters, by 55-22, with acting on Europe through strong belief rather
than calculation. A similar majority, 52-20, think Ed Miliband puts calculation
ahead of conviction on Europe. Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, said: "The
risk for David Cameron is that he could end up losing more votes by appearing
unprincipled than he gains from adopting a stance on the EU that appears to be
closer to the public mood." He added that any shift by Mr Miliband towards
supporting a referendum, which the Labour leader is currently ruling out, could
also backfire. David Lidington, the Europe Minister, yesterday gave a glimpse of
Mr Cameron's negotiating hand in Europe when he called for national parliaments
to be allowed to block new laws from Brussels.

Mr Lidington, speaking at a conference in Berlin attended by Angela Merkel, the
German Chancellor, called for a new system of "red cards" that would allow MPs
to veto proposals from the European Commission.

President Hollande of France warned Mr Cameron yesterday that attempts to
reclaim powers from the EU would risk breaking up the Union.

Apparently alluding to Britain, he also said that "the main risk for Europe is
that national selfishness wins over the interests of Europe".

He took a swipe at the UK economy, pointing out that Mr Cameron had imposed
austerity as harsh as that in the eurozone and it had performed as poorly,
suffering recession "virtually the same" as the eurozone.

Three ways forward Staying together for the sake of the kids Both sides use the
final 12 months to campaign against each other from across the Cabinet table.

Effect More temper tantrums but the Lib Dems reach the finishing line, claim to
be a grown-up party of government and share credit for any pick-up in the
economy. Ed Miliband keeps hold of disenchanted former Lib Dems.

An amicable divorce Nick Clegg shakes hands with David Cameron next summer and
says that he can no longer govern with a party consumed by Europe.

Effect Lib Dems support a minority Tory government on a "confidence and supply"
basis, supporting the Budget, pledging not to trigger an early election. Mr
Clegg, under pressure to give the party pre-election distance from the Tories,
could begin to "de-taint" the Lib Dem brand and adopt a position between the
Tories and Labour. However, he stands accused of lacking seriousness about
government. The exit may coincide with a pick-up in the economy, leaving George
Osborne to claim credit. Mr Cameron could appoint 20 new Tory ministers and
improve party morale.

An acrimonious split Mr Clegg is ousted after disastrous European elections next
June, the Lib Dems go into opposition, Vince Cable is elected leader at the
party conference. Effect Dr Cable puts distance between himself and Mr Cameron
and starts flirting with Labour.

Lib Dem deserters start to return, hitting Labour's poll numbers and encouraging
Tories in marginals that they might cling on.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Housey-housey has never been so tense

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 523 words


Welcome to Eurovision, Westminster style. I had no idea when I went along to the
Private Member's Bill ballot yesterday that it was going to be so much fun. For
this is not a ballot at all. It's more a raffle, with a bit of bingo thrown in
and also darts, as in when they bellow "One Hundred and Eighty!" Our Master of
Ceremonies was Lindsay Hoyle, the Deputy Speaker whose sense of fun and
Lancashire accent are proving a huge hit these days. He had a glamorous
assistant, of course. Tall, thin, dressed as a penguin with a white bow-tie, his
real name was David Natzler and he was Clerk of Legislation but, of course, we
started to call him Debbie.

"ORDER ORDER!" shouted Mr Hoyle. Next to him Debbie opened a battered black
dispatch box which looked like something from a boot fair except it had EiiR on
it. Inside was a nest of bits of paper, just the right size to be Chinese
takeaway fortunes except, instead, they all had numbers.

The Eurovision set was extremely grand, as befits a ceremony of such
constitutional importance to our nation. Committee Room 10 overlooks the Thames
with red wallpaper of such deep flock that I expected to hear it go "baaaa" at
any minute. At one end was a huge painting entitled Alfred Inciting the Saxons
to Prevent the Landing of the Danes. Even the art was Eurosceptic.

The "audience" was made up mostly of Tory MPs desperate to have their number
picked so they could introduce an EU Referendum Bill. But the snag was that it
wasn't good enough to just be picked. There would be 20 numbers picked but only
the top few had a hope in hell (technical term) of securing a debate.

Lindsay boomed: "Number 20!" Debbie, after rummaging, almost tremulous, trilled:
"214!" Lindsay consulted the oracle that was his list. "Dr Matthew Offord!" he
boomed. We all looked blank. Obscure doesn't even begin to cover it.

The next number picked was "212". Lindsay did not like that. "I think we better
shake 'em up," he ordered. Debbie fluffed the bits of paper a bit.

The countdown continued with Lindsay getting more and more enthusiastic. "Sir
Malcolm Bruuuuuuce!" he cried when the Lib-Dem nabbed a slot. When he got number
13, he noted: "Unlucky for some!" Through it all, the Eurosceptics examined
their lists with the urgency and focus of people conducting brain surgery. You
have to admire the sheer tenacity of the Euro-obsessive.

"The excitement and tension is growing!" boomed Lindsay as we approached the
great moment. Number three was Tory Jonathan Lord, a Euro-rebel, and number two
was a Labour MP.

"Shake 'em up!" cried Lindsay as the big moment arrived. "The winner of the day
is ... " "One hundred and ninety-nine," announced Debbie.

"Oooohhhhh!" cried the audience. Lindsay flipped through his list. "James
Wharton!" We looked at each other. Who? Still, within minutes, we were being
flooded with information about Mr Wharton. He was the young (aged 29) Tory from
Stockton and a Eurosceptic. His majority was tiny (332) and he had made the news
for being linked with a company that sells stone statues of giant penises.

Sorry, but it's true. It may not be in the best taste but, then, this IS
Eurovision.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Wharton, not an unknown MP any more

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Voters accuse Cameron of putting tactics before beliefs

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Billy Kenber; Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 795 words


David Cameron's shift on Europe this week could backfire because voters believe
he is acting through calculation rather than core belief, according to a poll.
Only 17 per cent of voters think the Prime Minister feels strongly about his
European strategy while 64 per cent think he is motivated by tactics.

Even Tory voters believe that, on the question of Europe, tactical
considerations outweigh Mr Cameron's convictions by a 45-44 split.

The YouGov findings show a significant majority of voters respect politicians
who follow their principles rather than court popularity.

More than half of voters (53 per cent) have more respect for leaders who do what
they think is right even if it is unpopular.

By contrast, 23 per cent prefer those who tailor policies to appeal to voters
even if they go against what they believe in.

The findings came as the youngest Tory MP emerged as the public face of the
party's tussle over Europe. James Wharton, the 29-year-old MP for Stockton
South, topped the annual ballot for Private Members' Bills and said he would
adopt the draft Bill hastily produced by Mr Cameron this week.

The Bill would enshrine in law the Prime Minister's promised in-out EU
referendum before the end of 2017. More than half of Tory backbenches voted
against the Queen's Speech this week because it lacked such a measure.

Tory high command yesterday threw its full weight behind Mr Wharton's Bill,
saying Tory MPs would be whipped in support, highly unusual for a Private
Member's Bill.

It will be debated first on July 5 but has little chance of becoming law because
it is easy for MPs opposed to block such a measure unless it is given government
time in the Commons, something which the Liberal Democrats are refusing to give.
Labour will also whip their MPs against.

The poll for The Times shows that only Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, is
credited by voters, by 55-22, with acting on Europe through strong belief rather
than calculation. A similar majority, 52-20, think Ed Miliband puts calculation
ahead of conviction on Europe. Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, said: "The
risk for David Cameron is that he could end up losing more votes by appearing
unprincipled than he gains from adopting a stance on the EU that appears to be
closer to the public mood." He added that any shift by Mr Miliband towards
supporting a referendum, which the Labour leader is currently ruling out, could
also backfire. David Lidington, the Europe Minister, yesterday gave a glimpse of
Mr Cameron's negotiating hand in Europe when he called for national parliaments
to be allowed to block new laws from Brussels.

Mr Lidington, speaking at a conference in Berlin attended by Angela Merkel, the
German Chancellor, called for a new system of "red cards" that would allow MPs
to veto proposals from the European Commission.

President Hollande of France warned Mr Cameron yesterday that attempts to
reclaim powers from the EU would risk breaking up the Union.

Apparently alluding to Britain, he also said that "the main risk for Europe is
that national selfishness wins over the interests of Europe".

He took a swipe at the UK economy, pointing out that Mr Cameron had imposed
austerity as harsh as that in the eurozone and it had performed as poorly,
suffering recession "virtually the same" as the eurozone.

Three ways forward Staying together for the sake of the kids Both sides use the
final 12 months to campaign against each other from across the Cabinet table.

Effect More temper tantrums but the Lib Dems reach the finishing line, claim to
be a grown-up party of government and share credit for any pick-up in the
economy. Ed Miliband keeps hold of disenchanted former Lib Dems.

An amicable divorce Nick Clegg shakes hands with David Cameron next summer and
says that he can no longer govern with a party consumed by Europe.

Effect Lib Dems support a minority Tory Government on a "confidence and supply"
basis, supporting the Budget, pledging not to trigger an early election. Mr
Clegg, under pressure to give the party pre-election distance from the Tories,
could begin to "de-taint" the Lib Dem brand and adopt a position between the
Tories and Labour. However, he stands accused of lacking seriousness about
government. The exit may coincide with a pick-up in the economy, leaving George
Osborne to claim credit. Mr Cameron could appoint 20 new Tory ministers and
improve party morale.

An acrimonious split Mr Clegg is ousted after disastrous European elections next
June, the Lib Dems go into opposition, Vince Cable is elected leader at the
party conference. Effect Dr Cable puts distance between himself and Mr Cameron
and starts flirting with Labour.

Lib Dem deserters start to return, hitting Labour's poll numbers and encouraging
Tories in marginals that they might cling on.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Housey-housey has never been so tense

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 523 words


Welcome to Eurovision, Westminster style. I had no idea when I went along to the
Private Member's Bill ballot yesterday that it was going to be so much fun. For
this is not a ballot at all. It's more a raffle, with a bit of bingo thrown in
and also darts, as in when they bellow "One Hundred and Eighty!" Our Master of
Ceremonies was Lindsay Hoyle, the Deputy Speaker whose sense of fun and
Lancashire accent are proving a huge hit these days. He had a glamorous
assistant, of course. Tall, thin, dressed as a penguin with a white bow tie, his
real name was David Natzler and he was Clerk of Legislation but, of course, we
started to call him Debbie.

"ORDER ORDER!" shouted Mr Hoyle. Next to him Debbie opened a battered black
dispatch box which looked like something from a boot fair except it had EiiR on
it. Inside was a nest of bits of paper, just the right size to be Chinese
takeaway fortunes except, instead, they all had numbers.

The Eurovision set was extremely grand, as befits a ceremony of such
constitutional importance to our nation. Committee Room 10 overlooks the Thames
with red wallpaper of such deep flock that I expected to hear it go "baaaa" at
any minute. At one end was a huge painting entitled Alfred Inciting the Saxons
to Prevent the Landing of the Danes. Even the art was Eurosceptic.

The "audience" was made up mostly of Tory MPs desperate to have their number
picked so they could introduce an EU Referendum Bill. But the snag was that it
wasn't good enough to just be picked. There would be 20 numbers picked but only
the top few had a hope in hell (technical term) of securing a debate.

Lindsay boomed: "Number 20!" Debbie, after rummaging, almost tremulous, trilled:
"214!" Lindsay consulted the oracle that was his list. "Dr Matthew Offord!" he
boomed. We all looked blank. Obscure doesn't even begin to cover it.

The next number picked was "212". Lindsay did not like that. "I think we better
shake 'em up," he ordered. Debbie fluffed the bits of paper a bit.

The countdown continued with Lindsay getting more and more enthusiastic. "Sir
Malcolm Bruuuuuuce!" he cried when the Lib-Dem nabbed a slot. When he got number
13, he noted: "Unlucky for some!" Through it all, the Eurosceptics examined
their lists with the urgency and focus of people conducting brain surgery. You
have to admire the sheer tenacity of the Euro-obsessive.

"The excitement and tension is growing!" boomed Lindsay as we approached the
great moment. Number three was Tory Jonathan Lord, a Euro-rebel, and number two
was a Labour MP.

"Shake 'em up!" cried Lindsay as the big moment arrived. "The winner of the day
is ... " "One hundred and ninety-nine," announced Debbie.

"Oooohhhhh!" cried the audience. Lindsay flipped through his list. "James
Wharton!" We looked at each other. Who? Still, within minutes, we were being
flooded with information about Mr Wharton. He was the young (aged 29) Tory from
Stockton and a Eurosceptic. His majority was tiny (332) and he had made the news
for being linked with a company that sells stone statues of giant penises.

Sorry, but it's true. It may not be in the best taste but, then, this IS
Eurovision.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Wharton, not an unknown MP any more

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron outflanked by Eurosceptics

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Billy Kenber

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 593 words


Eurosceptics Conservatives staged a massive show of strength last night as David
Cameron failed to limit his party's split over Europe.

More than half of Tory backbenchers voted against the Queen's Speech despite the
Prime Minister's hastily produced draft referendum Bill. The scale of the Tory
dissent - 116, including 13 ministerial aides - surprised even leading rebels,
who thought that many colleagues had been persuaded by Mr Cameron's manoeuvre.

Last night's rebel amendment lamented the absence from the Queen's Speech of a
Bill to enshrine in law Mr Cameron's promised in-out EU referendum before the
end of 2017. It failed by 277 votes to 131, with Labour and the Liberal
Democrats voting against and Conservative ministers abstaining.

The number of Conservatives dissenting easily topped 81 - the record Tory revolt
over Europe for this parliament.

Even though last night's vote was a licensed "rebellion", the scale of the
showing will increase pressure on Mr Cameron to secure Commons time for an MP to
pilot the Conservatives' referendum Bill through the Commons. MPs will learn
this morning who has secured a slot near the top of the ballot for Private
Member's Bills. The highest ranking Conservative is expected to take up the Bill
produced by the party this week, enshrining a 2017 referendum in law.

Such a Bill is likely to be a coalition flashpoint, with Nick Clegg refusing to
give government time to a measure his party says is a distraction.

Conservative MPs want Mr Cameron to call the Lib Dem leader's bluff over the
Bill, something the Prime Minister was - until last night - reluctant to do.

Mr Clegg shifted his party position yesterday, saying that it was a matter of
"when, not if" the public was given an in-out referendum. The Deputy Prime
Minister said that an eventual vote was likely because emerging new rules for
the eurozone would change the EU fundamentally, a process requiring the consent
of the British public.

His comments, delivered as he stood in at Prime Minister's Questions, pave the
way for the Lib Dems to campaign in the 2015 election with an open mind towards
a referendum.

Crucially, it would mean that Mr Cameron's promise was not an impediment to a
second Lib-Con coalition in a hung parliament. It also threatened to isolate Ed
Miliband, who is holding out against a referendum.

There was further trouble for Mr Cameron when Nadine Dorries, who recently
regained the Conservative whip, said she wanted to explore the possibility of
being a Tory-UKIP candidate in 2015.

Party chiefs would refuse to sign the nomination papers of anyone who wanted to
run on a joint ticket, senior party sources said, even though such a gambit is
technically possible.

But the stance sets up a further row with Ms Dorries, who will seek the support
of her Mid Bedfordshire constituency association for winning an endorsement of
Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader.

The idea is supported by other Tory Eurosceptics, including Peter Bone and
Philip Hollobone but is regarded with horror by others on the Right.

Vince Cable will inflame Cabinet tensions today by taking on Conservatives who
have advocated leaving the EU under current terms. The Lib Dem Business
Secretary will say that "no serious friend of British business" would ever
advocate severing links with Brussels.

Referring to UKIP's showing in the county council elections this month, he will
say: "It is simply self-indulgent and reckless for parties or individuals to
risk so much in order to address one concern raised in a council election by
just 7 per cent of the electorate."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "I was persuaded to shut up rather than put up"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Blue Baron is eager to take blame

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 518 words


Cometh the hour, cometh the Baron. I speak of the eponymous John, Baron of the
Eurosceptics, and leader of yesterday's Great EU Referendum rebellion.

"Seize the moment," he cried, rejecting saying carpe diem as too close to Rome
and, therefore, the EU.

I looked at The Baron. He is 53 and was, I suspect, born 53. For a Tory
politician, he looks quite normal. Grey, serious, principled, he is
righteousness itself. If he rode a horse, and I don't think he's ruled it out,
it would be a black stallion and he would be carrying the flag of truth (no
golden stars).

"Seize the moment," he told his own front bench. It is important that all things
in the EU debate are about things that don't exist: the referendum itself won't
materialise until 2017, if then, and the amendment to object to what wasn't in
the Queen's Speech (stay with me here) had no chance of winning yesterday. And
so, keeping with the "touch the void" theme, it was perfect that the Prime
Minister was not on the front bench but in New York, where there are no bad EU
apples only big ones. Instead, George Osborne was there, listening to the
Baron's plea.

I must report that George did not seize the moment. Seize the pen, possibly, but
not the moment. He did allow a tiny grimace to scud over his face like a small
cloud. Was it an emotion or, like a baby, merely wind? We may never know.

The Baron urged him to join the rebellion. "You could claim, quite rightly," he
told George, "that the situation is not of your making. Blame me! Blame us as a
group!" The Baron explained his cunning plan: with George (and Dave, if he
existed) on side, the amendment would, somehow, pass. With such a mandate, the
Liberals, as he called them, could not deny time for paving legislation. "Let
the media knock on their door and ask questions!" he cried.

I quite like the idea of knocking on the Liberal door.

"Knock knock," we'd say. "Who's there?" Nick Clegg would answer.

"Questions on the EU." "Ask me in 2017!" Actually, yesterday began with a
version of knock-knock. I speak of Prime Minister's Questions starring Mr Clegg
and Harriet Harman. "If the Prime Minister were here today," asked Harriet,
which is quite a big "if" these days, "would he be voting for the Government or
against the Government, or would he be showing true leadership and abstaining?"
Mr Clegg, effectively, told her to come back in 2017. "You have used three
questions to point out that the Prime Minister is not here. That is a striking
observation - a penetrating insight into the affairs of state today."

I am not sure we learnt much except how seriously The Baron is taking all of
this. "This matter is more important than party politics!" he cried. Around him,
scattered on the benches like confetti, Eurorebel followers nodded. They were
not wrecking their party, they were saving it. The Baron explained this was a
"golden opportunity" to give the electorate a say on the EU. "We should be bold
of heart, seize the moment and do what is right by the electorate and the
country."

Not to mention what was right by John Baron. They lost, but the Baron will live
to fight another day.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

EU and influence;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 305 words


Sir, Your correspondents who advocate UK withdrawal from the EU are right to say
that the UK would still be free to trade with the EU. But outside the single
market the UK would have little or no influence over the conditions on which
that trade is conducted. Equally, the UK would be an independent member of the
World Trade Organisation (WTO), and free to seek to expand our exports to the
developing world. But outside the EU our influence on trade negotiations,
whether globally in the WTO or bilaterally with countries such as the US, would
diminish sharply.

Independence is one thing: influence another. Outside the EU we would have
greater freedom to develop our own trade policy, but much less ability to get
that policy accepted by others. The price of influence may well be co-operation
with others and acquiescence in some positions that we would not choose for
ourselves, but it is a price worth paying.

christopher roberts (UK Director-General of Trade Policy, 1987-97) Woldingham,
Surrey Sir, It is strange that Conservative MPs are getting so excited about the
prospect of legislation requiring an "in-out" referendum on the EU in 2017
(report, May 14). It is a fundamental principle of English constitutional law
that no Parliament can bind its successors. Accordingly, even if the Bill were
to be enacted despite Mr Clegg's declared opposition, it would only have effect
if the Conservatives won the next election. Any other government could simply
repeal the Act.

robert rhodes, qc London WC2 Sir, You claim in your leading article (May 4) that
"the UKIP prescription of sheltering behind tariff walls would be to the
detriment of the nation". UKIP is in favour of the free movement of goods and
services. What we are against is the free movement of people. william dartmouth,
mep UKIP spokesman on international trade

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU and influence;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 305 words


Sir, Your correspondents who advocate UK withdrawal from the EU are right to say
that the UK would still be free to trade with the EU. But outside the single
market the UK would have little or no influence over the conditions on which
that trade is conducted. Equally, the UK would be an independent member of the
World Trade Organisation (WTO), and free to seek to expand our exports to the
developing world. But outside the EU our influence on trade negotiations,
whether globally in the WTO or bilaterally with countries such as the US, would
diminish sharply.

Independence is one thing: influence another. Outside the EU we would have
greater freedom to develop our own trade policy, but much less ability to get
that policy accepted by others. The price of influence may well be co-operation
with others and acquiescence in some positions that we would not choose for
ourselves, but it is a price worth paying.

christopher roberts (UK Director-General of Trade Policy, 1987-97) Woldingham,
Surrey Sir, It is strange that Conservative MPs are getting so excited about the
prospect of legislation requiring an "in-out" referendum on the EU in 2017
(report, May 14). It is a fundamental principle of English constitutional law
that no Parliament can bind its successors. Accordingly, even if the Bill were
to be enacted despite Mr Clegg's declared opposition, it would only have effect
if the Conservatives won the next election. Any other government could simply
repeal the Act.

robert rhodes, qc London WC2 Sir, You claim in your leading article (May 4) that
"the UKIP prescription of sheltering behind tariff walls would be to the
detriment of the nation". UKIP is in favour of the free movement of goods and
services. What we are against is the free movement of people. william dartmouth,
mep UKIP spokesman on international trade

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron outflanked by Eurosceptics

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Billy Kenber ; Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 593 words


Eurosceptics Conservatives staged a massive show of strength last night as David
Cameron failed to limit his party's split over Europe.

More than half of Tory backbenchers voted against the Queen's Speech despite the
Prime Minister's hastily produced draft referendum Bill. The scale of the Tory
dissent - 116, including 13 ministerial aides - surprised even leading rebels,
who thought that many colleagues had been persuaded by Mr Cameron's manoeuvre.

Last night's rebel amendment lamented the absence from the Queen's Speech of a
Bill to enshrine in law Mr Cameron's promised in-out EU referendum before the
end of 2017. It failed by 277 votes to 131, with Labour and the Liberal
Democrats voting against and Conservative ministers abstaining.

The number of Conservatives dissenting easily topped 81 - the record Tory revolt
over Europe for this parliament.

Even though last night's vote was a licensed "rebellion", the scale of the
showing will increase pressure on Mr Cameron to secure Commons time for an MP to
pilot the Conservatives' referendum Bill through the Commons. MPs will learn
this morning who has secured a slot near the top of the ballot for Private
Member's Bills. The highest ranking Conservative is expected to take up the Bill
produced by the party this week, enshrining a 2017 referendum in law.

Such a Bill is likely to be a coalition flashpoint, with Nick Clegg refusing to
give government time to a measure his party says is a distraction.

Conservative MPs want Mr Cameron to call the Lib Dem leader's bluff over the
Bill, something the Prime Minister was - until last night - reluctant to do.

Mr Clegg shifted his party position yesterday, saying that it was a matter of
"when, not if" the public was given an in-out referendum. The Deputy Prime
Minister said that an eventual vote was likely because emerging new rules for
the eurozone would change the EU fundamentally, a process requiring the consent
of the British public.

His comments, delivered as he stood in at Prime Minister's Questions, pave the
way for the Lib Dems to campaign in the 2015 election with an open mind towards
a referendum.

Crucially, it would mean that Mr Cameron's promise was not an impediment to a
second Lib-Con coalition in a hung parliament. It also threatened to isolate Ed
Miliband, who is holding out against a referendum.

There was further trouble for Mr Cameron when Nadine Dorries, who recently
regained the Conservative whip, said she wanted to explore the possibility of
being a Tory-UKIP candidate in 2015.

Party chiefs would refuse to sign the nomination papers of anyone who wanted to
run on a joint ticket, senior party sources said, even though such a gambit is
technically possible.

But the stance sets up a further row with Ms Dorries, who will seek the support
of her Mid Bedfordshire constituency association for winning an endorsement of
Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader.

The idea is supported by other Tory Eurosceptics, including Peter Bone and
Philip Hollobone but is regarded with horror by others on the Right.

Vince Cable will inflame Cabinet tensions today by taking on Conservatives who
have advocated leaving the EU under current terms. The Lib Dem Business
Secretary will say that "no serious friend of British business" would ever
advocate severing links with Brussels.

Referring to UKIP's showing in the county council elections this month, he will
say: "It is simply self-indulgent and reckless for parties or individuals to
risk so much in order to address one concern raised in a council election by
just 7 per cent of the electorate."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "I was persuaded to shut up rather than put up"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Blue Baron is eager to take blame

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 518 words


Cometh the hour, cometh the Baron. I speak of the eponymous John, Baron of the
Eurosceptics, and leader of yesterday's Great EU Referendum rebellion.

"Seize the moment," he cried, rejecting saying carpe diem as too close to Rome
and, therefore, the EU.

I looked at The Baron. He is 53 and was, I suspect, born 53. For a Tory
politician, he looks quite normal. Grey, serious, principled, he is
righteousness itself. If he rode a horse, and I don't think he's ruled it out,
it would be a black stallion and he would be carrying the flag of truth (no
golden stars).

"Seize the moment," he told his own front bench. It is important that all things
in the EU debate are about things that don't exist: the referendum itself won't
materialise until 2017, if then, and the amendment to object to what wasn't in
the Queen's Speech (stay with me here) had no chance of winning yesterday. And
so, keeping with the "touch the void" theme, it was perfect that the Prime
Minister was not on the front bench but in New York, where there are no bad EU
apples only big ones. Instead, George Osborne was there, listening to the
Baron's plea.

I must report that George did not seize the moment. Seize the pen, possibly, but
not the moment. He did allow a tiny grimace to scud over his face like a small
cloud. Was it an emotion or, like a baby, merely wind? We may never know.

The Baron urged him to join the rebellion. "You could claim, quite rightly," he
told George, "that the situation is not of your making. Blame me! Blame us as a
group!" The Baron explained his cunning plan: with George (and Dave, if he
existed) on side, the amendment would, somehow, pass. With such a mandate, the
Liberals, as he called them, could not deny time for paving legislation. "Let
the media knock on their door and ask questions!" he cried.

I quite like the idea of knocking on the Liberal door.

"Knock knock," we'd say. "Who's there?" Nick Clegg would answer.

"Questions on the EU." "Ask me in 2017!" Actually, yesterday began with a
version of knock-knock. I speak of Prime Minister's Questions starring Mr Clegg
and Harriet Harman. "If the Prime Minister were here today," asked Harriet,
which is quite a big "if" these days, "would he be voting for the Government or
against the Government, or would he be showing true leadership and abstaining?"
Mr Clegg, effectively, told her to come back in 2017. "You have used three
questions to point out that the Prime Minister is not here. That is a striking
observation - a penetrating insight into the affairs of state today."

I am not sure we learnt much except how seriously The Baron is taking all of
this. "This matter is more important than party politics!" he cried. Around him,
scattered on the benches like confetti, Eurorebel followers nodded. They were
not wrecking their party, they were saving it. The Baron explained this was a
"golden opportunity" to give the electorate a say on the EU. "We should be bold
of heart, seize the moment and do what is right by the electorate and the
country."

Not to mention what was right by John Baron. They lost, but the Baron will live
to fight another day.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron outflanked by Eurosceptics

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Billy Kenber ; Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 594 words


Eurosceptic Conservatives staged a massive show of strength last night as David
Cameron failed to limit his party's split over Europe.

More than half of Tory backbenchers voted against the Queen's Speech despite the
Prime Minister's hastily produced draft referendum Bill. The scale of the Tory
dissent - 116, including 13 ministerial aides - surprised even leading rebels,
who thought that many colleagues had been persuaded by Mr Cameron's manoeuvre.

Last night's rebel amendment lamented the absence from the Queen's Speech of a
Bill to enshrine in law Mr Cameron's promised in-out EU referendum before the
end of 2017. It failed by 277 votes to 131, with Labour and the Liberal
Democrats voting against and Conservative ministers abstaining.

The number of Conservatives dissenting easily topped 81 - the record Tory revolt
over Europe for this parliament.

Even though last night's vote was a licensed "rebellion", the scale of the
showing will increase pressure on Mr Cameron to secure Commons time for an MP to
pilot the Conservatives' referendum Bill through the Commons. MPs will learn
this morning who has secured a slot near the top of the ballot for Private
Member's Bills. The highest ranking Conservative is expected to take up the Bill
produced by the party this week, enshrining a 2017 referendum in law.

Such a Bill is likely to be a coalition flashpoint, with Nick Clegg refusing to
give government time to a measure his party says is a distraction.

Conservative MPs want Mr Cameron to call the Lib Dem leader's bluff over the
Bill, something that the Prime Minister was - until last night - reluctant to
do.

Mr Clegg shifted his party position yesterday, saying that it was a matter of
"when, not if" the public was given an in-out referendum. The Deputy Prime
Minister said that an eventual vote was likely because emerging new rules for
the eurozone would change the EU fundamentally, a process requiring the consent
of the British public.

His comments, delivered as he stood in at Prime Minister's Questions, pave the
way for the Lib Dems to campaign in the 2015 election with an open mind towards
a referendum.

Crucially, it would mean that Mr Cameron's promise was not an impediment to a
second Lib-Con coalition in a hung parliament. It also threatened to isolate Ed
Miliband, who is holding out against a referendum.

There was further trouble for Mr Cameron when Nadine Dorries, who recently
regained the Conservative whip, said that she wanted to explore the possibility
of being a Tory-UKIP candidate in 2015.

Party chiefs would refuse to sign the nomination papers of anyone who wanted to
run on a joint ticket, senior party sources said, even though such a gambit is
technically possible.

But the stance sets up a further row with Ms Dorries, who will seek the support
of her Mid Bedfordshire constituency association for winning an endorsement of
Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader.

The idea is supported by other Tory Eurosceptics, including Peter Bone and
Philip Hollobone but is regarded with horror by others on the Right.

Vince Cable will increase Cabinet tensions today by taking on Tories who have
advocated leaving the EU under current terms. The Lib Dem Business Secretary
will say that "no serious friend of British business" would ever advocate
severing links with Brussels.

Referring to UKIP's showing in the county council elections this month, he will
say: "It is simply self-indulgent and reckless for parties or individuals to
risk so much in order to address one concern raised in a council election by
just 7 per cent of the electorate."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "I was persuaded to shut up rather than put up"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Britain in Europe;
The Prime Minister's recent handling of a referendum on the European Union has
been a disaster. It has made him look weak when he had Labour on the defensive

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words


Last January, in a long-awaited speech, David Cameron announced that he would
offer the British people a referendum on whether the country should remain
within the European Union. If he hoped that this move would stop a surge in
support for UKIP or quieten his own troublesome backbenchers, he was mistaken.

The promise of a referendum came with various caveats that undermined the
credibility of his promise. The first was that any vote would not happen until
2017 after a Conservative general election victory. The second was that it would
only occur after renegotiation. Most Eurosceptics are not optimistic that
renegotiation will succeed. In his groundbreaking article for The Times, Lord
Lawson of Blaby argued that renegotiations were likely to be as "trivial" in
their results as those delivered by Harold Wilson nearly 40 years ago. It was
further contingent on the Prime Minister's word being believed. More than 100
Tory MPs, led by John Baron, had warned Mr Cameron that voters had heard too
many politicians promise referendums, only for those promises to be broken. That
was why they alighted on the idea that the promise of a referendum should be
enshrined in law, which the Conservative leader had refused to do.

Mr Cameron now finds himself in the humiliating position of having to back a
Bill to ensure there is a referendum, a move that only a week ago he had
rejected. Furthermore he knows that his coalition partners and the Labour
Opposition will block the measure. Now the belated addendum to the Queen's
Speech will wander the corridors of the Palace of Westminster hoping to bump
into a Conservative MP lucky enough to come in the top three of the ballot for
Private Member's Bills. Even if the Bill finds a sponsor, its chances of passing
into law are small because Labour and Liberal Democrat opponents are likely
either to vote against it or simply talk it out.

The tactics have been a mess and the Conservative Party has paraded itself in an
unflattering light. This is unfortunate because Mr Cameron had placed himself in
a strong position by promising the people a choice. No one aged under 55 has had
a say on Britain's membership of the European Union and that union has changed
fundamentally since Britons were last asked if they wanted to belong to what was
then called the European Economic Community.

A pledge to hold a vote also had the electoral merit for the the Conservative
Party of putting the Liberal Democrats and Labour in the awkward position of
looking as if they did not trust the electorate to have a vote on an institution
that shapes so many of our laws.

Our relationship with Europe will need to be recast whoever is prime minister
after 2015. The eurozone crisis is likely to require its members to move towards
further fiscal and political integration, which will automatically change the
nature of Britain's place in Europe. This country needs a debate about the type
of EU that is emerging and the prime minister of the day will need to articulate
a new vision, which he is then able to back up in negotiations. At the end of
that process the people must have the chance either to confirm or to reject the
new terms of membership.

What the last few days have confirmed is the unhappy relationship that Mr
Cameron has with large sections of his own parliamentary party. It has not just
been backbenchers rebelling against his European policy. To Downing Street's
displeasure, Cabinet ministers have declared their willingness to leave the EU
in certain circumstances.

The Prime Minister must work harder at achieving consensus in his party. A more
collegiate style of leadership will reduce the likelihood of having to adopt
positions from which he later has to retreat.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tories at war as Eurosceptics reject Cameron's olive branch

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Roland Watson; Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 606 words


David Cameron ruled out further concessions to Conservative rebels on Europe
last night as his surprise embrace of an immediate referendum Bill threatened to
fracture the party.

Eurosceptics demanded that Mr Cameron go further and, if necessary, bring down
the coalition to write his promised referendum into law. But Tory MPs in
marginal seats criticised their colleagues for sounding "like a broken record"
on Europe and putting off voters.

Nicholas Soames, the Europhile grandee, said that it was "offensive" that some
Eurosceptic MPs did not take the Prime Minister at his word over the referendum.
It was a "lunatic way of proceeding" for them to jump on Downing Street
concessions and immediately demand more. "This game has got to stop," he said.

Ministers expressed concern about the Prime Minister's authority being
diminished by the current unrest over Europe. "We need to be led, and quickly,"
said one. "Much more of this and it will be very damaging."

Mr Cameron appeared to concede that his move risked leaving an impression of
Tory turmoil. He said that "when all the dust has settled" the public would see
that the Tories were the only party offering an EU referendum.

Senior Tory sources said that there would be no more concessions to the party's
Eurosceptics. "We've got Obama and this Bill," they said, referring to the
support for Mr Cameron's strategy that President Obama gave after White House
talks on Monday.

"It's like building a dam," the sources said. "This is our red line - we're not
going to give them any more ground."

Last night the Tories published their Bill, which would enshrine in law a
referendum before the end of 2017. Voters would be asked: "Do you think that the
United Kingdom should remain a member of the European Union?" The Bill has
little chance of becoming law. It will be offered to any Tory MP who comes near
the top of tomorrow's ballot for Private Member's Bills for the current
parliamentary session. Such a Bill is easily thwarted or talked out by a
determined Opposition.

Mr Cameron is trying to turn the pressure he is under to guarantee his
referendum promise into a dividing line with Labour and the Liberal Democrats.
However, his Bill - announced while he was travelling in the US - failed to buy
off many of the 100 or so Tories threatening to vote against the Queen's Speech
today.

John Baron, architect of today's amendment to the Queen's Speech expressing
regret that it did not include a Referendum Bill, said that Mr Cameron should be
allowing ministers to back the rebel motion. Philip Hollobone, another key
backer of the amendment, urged Mr Cameron to insist that the measure was given
government time in the Commons. "If it ends the coalition, so be it," he said.

Other Tories were dismissive of Mr Cameron's manoeuvre. One senior party figure
called it "a dumb ruse", adding: "This is in danger of making John Major look
like a hero."

Tory MPs in marginal seats expressed alarm. Graham Evans, MP for Weaver Vale
with a majority of 991, said that his colleagues were "like a broken record".
James Wharton, who has a majority of 332 in Stockton South, said that the public
would wonder why the Tories were spending so much time discussing Europe "to the
exclusion of so many other important things".

Neil Carmichael, who represents the marginal seat of Stroud, said: "We are in
the territory where the Conservative party got itself between 1992 and 1997."

One MP in a northern marginal described the party's rabid Eurosceptics as
"absolutely barmy." He said: "We are talking about things that don't matter to
the electorate. I wish they would all shut up."

Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron at the Boston Marathon bomb memorial yesterday with the
Governor of Massachusetts, Deval Patrick
REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Oh, how they Laffed as the fruitcakes huff over Europe

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 545 words


f I were a fruitcake, I would sue.

IThis is what the Euro debate has become, an attack on baked goods. For
yesterday it seemed as if everything in the Commons was, somehow, connected to
Europe. Exhibit One occurred during yesterday's debate on the environment. David
T.C. Davies, known as Top Cat, who inhabits the wilder shores of Tory
Euroscepticism, was castigating anyone who did not believe in nuclear power.

"These people live in some sort of fantasy world believing that if we could just
get rid of technology we could go back to living in some kind of Tolkien-esque
world like the Hobbits before the evil ones started attacking them, all living
in wonderful grass huts."

Caroline Lucas, our only Green MP, took offence, though I cannot think why. "I
thought that the discussion about Europe was where we found the fruitcakes!" she
cried.

Mr Davies took offence on behalf of loaves everywhere: "It was the fruitcakes
who warned against the euro ten years ago. We were accused of being fruitcakes
then. The fruitcakes were right."

The fruitcakes were right. Hmmm.

Is that really a rallying cry? But Top Cat wasn't finished. "I'm for fruitcakes.
I'm proud to be a fruitcake. Long may fruitcakes continue!" As this is
Westminster, we have way more fruitcakes than Hobbits. Indeed, yesterday,
Nicholas Soames, the Tory battleship who certainly has more than a passing
acquaintance with cake, attacked the Eurosceptics as acting in a "lunatic way".
But Nadine Dorries, or Mad Nad as she is called (which is a good name for a
fruitcake), who has just got the Tory Whip back after her jungle antics,
insisted that it made more sense to have a Euro referendum than one on AV (it's
the Lib Dems' fault, of course).

Yesterday, the food fight - sorry, Euro debate - also splattered itself all over
Treasury questions. Now, we haven't seen George Osborne at the dispatch box
since the Budget. He really is the Submarine Chancellor, rarely surfacing, and
it feels as if he's been in deep dive mode for ever. And yesterday I arrived to
see, instead, Danny Alexander on the front bench. I stared. I always forget that
Danny A exists until I see him. His ability to be forgotten may be his special
talent and explain his longevity.

"The Chancellor is in Brussels," chortled the man who is often confused with a
giant red squirrel, "exercising the considerable influence that Britain enjoys
as a full member of the European Union!" How MPs laughed at the words "European
Union"! The only ones who didn't were the Euro rebels who were too busy plotting
to look up. I quite enjoyed looking down on them as they rotated around each
other, like a political version of a Busby Berkeley dance routine, whispering
and confiding over the only topic in the world. (And, no, that wouldn't be
fruitcakes ... ) Danny A repeatedly attacked the Euro rebels' stance, joining
with Labour to decry a new referendum Bill. But, occasionally, economics
questions intruded on the fruitiness. Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Euro rebel who wants a
pact with UKIP, which have patented the original fruitcake recipe, arose to
praise tax cuts for rich people. "The Laffer curve works and we are better off
with lower rates," he insisted. Ah, yes, the Laffer curve, not to be confused
with giggles, fruitcakes or, indeed, Hobbits.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David "T.C." Davies inhabits the wilder shores of Eurosceptism

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Ed blows his chance to stoke a Tory civil war;
Labour has turned into an anti-referendum party that doesn't trust the voters

BYLINE: Dan Hodges

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 781 words


Yesterday morning Ed Miliband's shadow Cabinet assembled for its weekly meeting.
Top of its agenda was a golden opportunity for Labour to pour petrol on the
blazing European row inside the Conservative Party.

All Mr Miliband needed to say was that circumstances had changed since he had
questioned the need for a referendum on Britain's membership of the European
Union. It was now obvious, he could have intoned sagely, that the Conservative
Party was so paralysed by its obsession with Europe that it was necessary for
the issue to be put to bed.

For good measure he could have argued that the economic uncertainty caused by
the internal Tory debate was endangering the nation's prosperity and the
prospects of overseas investment in Britain. And he could have concluded by
offering to give the British people a vote on Europe on the same day as the next
European Parliamentary Elections, in June 2014. In that moment he would have
dared Tory MPs to join him in delivering that referendum or risk looking like
they were all mouth and no trousers.

Cool heads within Tory ranks would have spotted the trap, but as we've seen over
the past few days they are currently in short supply. What's more, the spectacle
of being outflanked on Europe - by Red Ed of all people - would have cast a
chill down the spines of even moderate Tory MPs, many of whom are already
unnerved by the UKIP threat.

David Cameron would have faced a choice: accede to Mr Miliband's call for an
early referendum or run the risk of turning infighting into an all out
insurrection. And if he did accept Mr Miliband's challenge, then what? Would Mr
Cameron campaign for withdrawal from Europe and potentially preside over a
diplomatic and economic calamity? Or fight to stay in, and find himself damned
by his own party for what they would see as one of history's great political
betrayals? Either way, Ed Miliband couldn't lose. But being Ed Miliband, he has
lost. Not for the first time, Labour's leader has blown it.

"Ed said the focus should stay on the Tories", said one shadow Cabinet insider.
"He thinks we now have a platform for our case on Europe. We should stick to
it".

Presented with the opportunity to seize the day and potentially hasten the end
of the coalition, Mr Miliband instead opted for a short press release. It
stated: "Labour have said that we don't think committing now to an in/out
referendum up to four years from now is in the national interest."

Labour's leader litters his speeches with talk of tough choices. But he never
makes them. For months before the Prime Minister's first major
Euro-announcement, a number of Mr Miliband's colleagues urged him to steal a
march on Mr Cameron and pledge a referendum himself. He chose to dither. It
wasn't so much "wait and see" but "wait, then wait some more".

Liam Byrne, his shadow Work and Pensions Secretary, urged him to change his
position on welfare, sensing the political risks it posed for Labour. Again, Mr
Miliband ignored him.

Time after time Mr Miliband was urged to toughen Labour's line on spending and
the deficit. Yet as recently as a fortnight ago he was unable to give a coherent
answer as to whether the next Labour government would borrow more money to boost
the economy or borrow less.

Ironically, a shift of stance on Europe would actually represent one of the less
risky options for Ed Miliband. A range of shadow Cabinet figures - as diverse as
Ed Balls, Jim Murphy and Jon Cruddas - all back a referendum. At the same time
the leading trade unions are rekindling the Left's historic suspicion of
Euro-centralisation.

Labour insiders who back Mr Miliband give a dual rationale for his unwillingness
to offer a referendum. Europe mustn't "be a distraction" from the key issues
that will decide the election. And Mr Miliband's politics must be seen to be
based on principle, not opportunism.

Fine. But just what is the issue of high principle that Labour's leader is
standing upon? No one, least of all me, is arguing that he leads a campaign for
British exit from the EU. The question is whether to give the British people a
say on an issue that Mr Miliband himself concedes is one of vital national
interest.

Labour is in a political no-man's land. It opposes David Cameron's referendum
pledge but claims it is leaving the door open for a similar pledge of its own.
To hold a referendum today would, it says, be reckless. But in a couple of
years' time? Labour says: "Get back to us."

Ed Miliband is not actually positioning Labour as the pro-European party. He's
positioning it as the anti-referendum party.

Dan Hodges is a political commentator and former Labour adviser

He'd have dared Tory MPs to risk looking all mouth and no trousers

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: What is the issue of high principle that the Labour leader is standing
on?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Briefing

SECTION: NEWS; DIARY; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 45 words


Westminster: House of Commons votes on the EU referendum amendment to the
Queen's Speech US: Prince Harry concludes his visit by playing in the Sentebale
Polo Cup in Connecticut Bournemouth: The Home Secretary Theresa May speaks at
the Police Federation Annual Conference

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories at war as Eurosceptics reject Cameron's olive branch

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Roland Watson; Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 606 words


David Cameron ruled out further concessions to Conservative rebels on Europe
last night as his surprise embrace of an immediate referendum Bill threatened to
fracture the party.

Eurosceptics demanded that Mr Cameron go further and, if necessary, bring down
the coalition to write his promised referendum into law. But Tory MPs in
marginal seats criticised their colleagues for sounding "like a broken record"
on Europe and putting off voters.

Nicholas Soames, the Europhile grandee, said that it was "offensive" that some
Eurosceptic MPs did not take the Prime Minister at his word over the referendum.
It was a "lunatic way of proceeding" for them to jump on Downing Street
concessions and immediately demand more. "This game has got to stop," he said.

Ministers expressed concern about the Prime Minister's authority being
diminished by the current unrest over Europe. "We need to be led, and quickly,"
said one. "Much more of this and it will be very damaging."

Mr Cameron appeared to concede that his move risked leaving an impression of
Tory turmoil. He said that "when all the dust has settled" the public would see
that the Tories were the only party offering an EU referendum.

Senior Tory sources said that there would be no more concessions to the party's
Eurosceptics. "We've got Obama and this Bill," they said, referring to the
support for Mr Cameron's strategy that President Obama gave after White House
talks on Monday.

"It's like building a dam," the sources said. "This is our red line - we're not
going to give them any more ground."

Last night the Tories published their Bill, which would enshrine in law a
referendum before the end of 2017. Voters would be asked: "Do you think that the
United Kingdom should remain a member of the European Union?" The Bill has
little chance of becoming law. It will be offered to any Tory MP who comes near
the top of tomorrow's ballot for Private Member's Bills for the current
parliamentary session. Such a Bill is easily thwarted or talked out by a
determined Opposition.

Mr Cameron is trying to turn the pressure he is under to guarantee his
referendum promise into a dividing line with Labour and the Liberal Democrats.
However, his Bill - announced while he was travelling in the US - failed to buy
off many of the 100 or so Tories threatening to vote against the Queen's Speech
today.

John Baron, architect of today's amendment to the Queen's Speech expressing
regret that it did not include a Referendum Bill, said that Mr Cameron should be
allowing ministers to back the rebel motion. Philip Hollobone, another key
backer of the amendment, urged Mr Cameron to insist that the measure was given
government time in the Commons. "If it ends the coalition, so be it," he said.

Other Tories were dismissive of Mr Cameron's manoeuvre. One senior party figure
called it "a dumb ruse", adding: "This is in danger of making John Major look
like a hero."

Tory MPs in marginal seats expressed alarm. Graham Evans, MP for Weaver Vale
with a majority of 991, said that his colleagues were "like a broken record".
James Wharton, who has a majority of 332 in Stockton South, said that the public
would wonder why the Tories were spending so much time discussing Europe "to the
exclusion of so many other important things".

Neil Carmichael, who represents the marginal seat of Stroud, said: "We are in
the territory where the Conservative party got itself between 1992 and 1997."

One MP in a northern marginal described the party's rabid Eurosceptics as
"absolutely barmy." He said: "We are talking about things that don't matter to
the electorate. I wish they would all shut up."

Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron at the Boston Marathon bomb memorial yesterday with the
Governor of Massachusetts, Deval Patrick
REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Oh, how they Laffed as the fruitcakes huff over Europe

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 545 words


If I were a fruitcake, I would sue. This is what the Euro debate has become, an
attack on baked goods. For yesterday it seemed as if everything in the Commons
was, somehow, connected to Europe. Exhibit One occurred during yesterday's
debate on the environment. David T.C. Davies, known as Top Cat, who inhabits the
wilder shores of Tory Euroscepticism, was castigating anyone who did not believe
in nuclear power.

"These people live in some sort of fantasy world believing that if we could just
get rid of technology we could go back to living in some kind of Tolkien-esque
world like the Hobbits before the evil ones started attacking them, all living
in wonderful grass huts."

Caroline Lucas, our only Green MP, took offence, though I cannot think why. "I
thought that the discussion about Europe was where we found the fruitcakes!" she
cried.

Mr Davies took offence on behalf of loaves everywhere: "It was the fruitcakes
who warned against the euro ten years ago. We were accused of being fruitcakes
then. The fruitcakes were right."

The fruitcakes were right. Hmmm. Is that really a rallying cry? But Top Cat
wasn't finished. "I'm for fruitcakes. I'm proud to be a fruitcake. Long may
fruitcakes continue!"

As this is Westminster, we have way more fruitcakes than Hobbits. Indeed,
yesterday, Nicholas Soames, the Tory battleship who certainly has more than a
passing acquaintance with cake, attacked the Eurosceptics as acting in a
"lunatic way". But Nadine Dorries, or Mad Nad as she is called (which is a good
name for a fruitcake), who has just got the Tory Whip back after her jungle
antics, insisted that it made more sense to have a Euro referendum than one on
AV (it's the Lib Dems' fault, of course).

Yesterday, the food fight - sorry, Euro debate - also splattered itself all over
Treasury questions. Now, we haven't seen George Osborne at the dispatch box
since the Budget. He really is the Submarine Chancellor, rarely surfacing, and
it feels as if he's been in deep dive mode for ever. And yesterday I arrived to
see, instead, Danny Alexander on the front bench. I stared. I always forget that
Danny A exists until I see him. His ability to be forgotten may be his special
talent and explain his longevity.

"The Chancellor is in Brussels," chortled the man who is often confused with a
giant red squirrel, "exercising the considerable influence that Britain enjoys
as a full member of the European Union!" How MPs laughed at the words "European
Union"! The only ones who didn't were the Euro rebels who were too busy plotting
to look up. I quite enjoyed looking down on them as they rotated around each
other, like a political version of a Busby Berkeley dance routine, whispering
and confiding over the only topic in the world. (And, no, that wouldn't be
fruitcakes ... )

Danny A repeatedly attacked the Euro rebels' stance, joining with Labour to
decry a new referendum Bill. But, occasionally, economics questions intruded on
the fruitiness. Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Euro rebel who wants a pact with UKIP, which
have patented the original fruitcake recipe, arose to praise tax cuts for rich
people. "The Laffer curve works and we are better off with lower rates," he
insisted. Ah, yes, the Laffer curve, not to be confused with giggles, fruitcakes
or, indeed, Hobbits.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David "T.C." Davies inhabits the wilder shores of Eurosceptism

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ed blows his chance to stoke a Tory civil war;
Labour has turned into an anti-referendum party that doesn't trust the voters

BYLINE: Dan Hodges

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 781 words


Yesterday morning Ed Miliband's shadow Cabinet assembled for its weekly meeting.
Top of its agenda was a golden opportunity for Labour to pour petrol on the
blazing European row inside the Conservative Party.

All Mr Miliband needed to say was that circumstances had changed since he had
questioned the need for a referendum on Britain's membership of the European
Union. It was now obvious, he could have intoned sagely, that the Conservative
Party was so paralysed by its obsession with Europe that it was necessary for
the issue to be put to bed.

For good measure he could have argued that the economic uncertainty caused by
the internal Tory debate was endangering the nation's prosperity and the
prospects of overseas investment in Britain. And he could have concluded by
offering to give the British people a vote on Europe on the same day as the next
European Parliamentary Elections, in June 2014. In that moment he would have
dared Tory MPs to join him in delivering that referendum or risk looking like
they were all mouth and no trousers.

Cool heads within Tory ranks would have spotted the trap, but as we've seen over
the past few days they are currently in short supply. What's more, the spectacle
of being outflanked on Europe - by Red Ed of all people - would have cast a
chill down the spines of even moderate Tory MPs, many of whom are already
unnerved by the UKIP threat.

David Cameron would have faced a choice: accede to Mr Miliband's call for an
early referendum or run the risk of turning infighting into an all out
insurrection. And if he did accept Mr Miliband's challenge, then what? Would Mr
Cameron campaign for withdrawal from Europe and potentially preside over a
diplomatic and economic calamity? Or fight to stay in, and find himself damned
by his own party for what they would see as one of history's great political
betrayals? Either way, Ed Miliband couldn't lose. But being Ed Miliband, he has
lost. Not for the first time, Labour's leader has blown it.

"Ed said the focus should stay on the Tories", said one shadow Cabinet insider.
"He thinks we now have a platform for our case on Europe. We should stick to
it".

Presented with the opportunity to seize the day and potentially hasten the end
of the coalition, Mr Miliband instead opted for a short press release. It
stated: "Labour have said that we don't think committing now to an in/out
referendum up to four years from now is in the national interest."

Labour's leader litters his speeches with talk of tough choices. But he never
makes them. For months before the Prime Minister's first major
Euro-announcement, a number of Mr Miliband's colleagues urged him to steal a
march on Mr Cameron and pledge a referendum himself. He chose to dither. It
wasn't so much "wait and see" but "wait, then wait some more".

Liam Byrne, his shadow Work and Pensions Secretary, urged him to change his
position on welfare, sensing the political risks it posed for Labour. Again, Mr
Miliband ignored him.

Time after time Mr Miliband was urged to toughen Labour's line on spending and
the deficit. Yet as recently as a fortnight ago he was unable to give a coherent
answer as to whether the next Labour government would borrow more money to boost
the economy or borrow less.

Ironically, a shift of stance on Europe would actually represent one of the less
risky options for Ed Miliband. A range of shadow Cabinet figures - as diverse as
Ed Balls, Jim Murphy and Jon Cruddas - all back a referendum. At the same time
the leading trade unions are rekindling the Left's historic suspicion of
Euro-centralisation.

Labour insiders who back Mr Miliband give a dual rationale for his unwillingness
to offer a referendum. Europe mustn't "be a distraction" from the key issues
that will decide the election. And Mr Miliband's politics must be seen to be
based on principle, not opportunism.

Fine. But just what is the issue of high principle that Labour's leader is
standing upon? No one, least of all me, is arguing that he leads a campaign for
British exit from the EU. The question is whether to give the British people a
say on an issue that Mr Miliband himself concedes is one of vital national
interest.

Labour is in a political no-man's land. It opposes David Cameron's referendum
pledge but claims it is leaving the door open for a similar pledge of its own.
To hold a referendum today would, it says, be reckless. But in a couple of
years' time? Labour says: "Get back to us."

Ed Miliband is not actually positioning Labour as the pro-European party. He's
positioning it as the anti-referendum party.

Dan Hodges is a political commentator and former Labour adviser

He'd have dared Tory MPs to risk looking all mouth and no trousers

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: What is the issue of high principle that the Labour leader is standing
on?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain in Europe;
The Prime Minister's recent handling of a referendum on the European Union has
been a disaster. It has made him look weak when he had Labour on the defensive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words


Last January, in a long-awaited speech, David Cameron announced that he would
offer the British people a referendum on whether the country should remain
within the European Union. If he hoped that this move would stop a surge in
support for UKIP or quieten his own troublesome backbenchers, he was mistaken.

The promise of a referendum came with various caveats that undermined the
credibility of his promise. The first was that any vote would not happen until
2017 after a Conservative general election victory. The second was that it would
only occur after renegotiation. Most Eurosceptics are not optimistic that
renegotiation will succeed. In his groundbreaking article for The Times, Lord
Lawson of Blaby argued that renegotiations were likely to be as "trivial" in
their results as those delivered by Harold Wilson nearly 40 years ago. It was
further contingent on the Prime Minister's word being believed. More than 100
Tory MPs, led by John Baron, had warned Mr Cameron that voters had heard too
many politicians promise referendums, only for those promises to be broken. That
was why they alighted on the idea that the promise of a referendum should be
enshrined in law, which the Conservative leader had refused to do.

Mr Cameron now finds himself in the humiliating position of having to back a
Bill to ensure there is a referendum, a move that only a week ago he had
rejected. Furthermore he knows that his coalition partners and the Labour
Opposition will block the measure. Now the belated addendum to the Queen's
Speech will wander the corridors of the Palace of Westminster hoping to bump
into a Conservative MP lucky enough to come in the top three of the ballot for
Private Member's Bills. Even if the Bill finds a sponsor, its chances of passing
into law are small because Labour and Liberal Democrat opponents are likely
either to vote against it or simply talk it out.

The tactics have been a mess and the Conservative Party has paraded itself in an
unflattering light. This is unfortunate because Mr Cameron had placed himself in
a strong position by promising the people a choice. No one aged under 55 has had
a say on Britain's membership of the European Union and that union has changed
fundamentally since Britons were last asked if they wanted to belong to what was
then called the European Economic Community.

A pledge to hold a vote also had the electoral merit for the the Conservative
Party of putting the Liberal Democrats and Labour in the awkward position of
looking as if they did not trust the electorate to have a vote on an institution
that shapes so many of our laws.

Our relationship with Europe will need to be recast whoever is prime minister
after 2015. The eurozone crisis is likely to require its members to move towards
further fiscal and political integration, which will automatically change the
nature of Britain's place in Europe. This country needs a debate about the type
of EU that is emerging and the prime minister of the day will need to articulate
a new vision, which he is then able to back up in negotiations. At the end of
that process the people must have the chance either to confirm or to reject the
new terms of membership.

What the last few days have confirmed is the unhappy relationship that Mr
Cameron has with large sections of his own parliamentary party. It has not just
been backbenchers rebelling against his European policy. To Downing Street's
displeasure, Cabinet ministers have declared their willingness to leave the EU
in certain circumstances.

The Prime Minister must work harder at achieving consensus in his party. A more
collegiate style of leadership will reduce the likelihood of having to adopt
positions from which he later has to retreat.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Briefing

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 45 words


Westminster: House of Commons votes on the EU referendum amendment to the
Queen's Speech US: Prince Harry concludes his visit by playing in the Sentebale
Polo Cup in Connecticut Bournemouth: The Home Secretary Theresa May speaks at
the Police Federation Annual Conference

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Two parties both riven by the same old splits;
The Tories are being sucked into the whirlpool of Europe, but Labour's division
on the economy runs just as deep

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1072 words


'So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the
past." How relevant the last line of The Great Gatsby seems right now, and not
just because Baz Luhrmann's new film is out this week.

At Westminster the political parties drift on the tide. David Cameron and Ed
Miliband seem helpless to fight the drag that pulls them inexorably back to
historical positions that have in each case been so destructive to their tribes.

The Conservatives are sucked yet again into the whirlpool of Europe. Down and
down they go into the depths as the grandees line up to call for Britain to pull
out of the EU. MPs table an amendment expressing "regret" at the absence of
legislation paving the way for a referendum on Europe in the Queen's Speech - a
petty procedural device that will make no practical difference to anything.
Cabinet ministers dive in, with Michael Gove and Philip Hammond saying that they
would vote to leave if there were a referendum tomorrow - a pointless threat,
except in personal political positioning terms, as there will be no such poll.
Boris Johnson, never one to resist an opportunity to rock the boat, insists that
Britain must show it is "willing to walk away" from the EU to get a good deal.

And so another Tory Prime Minister enters treacherous waters, his authority
challenged by in-fighting. Not waving but drowning, No 10 is powerless to
prevent a rebellion. It promises backbenchers a free vote on the Queen's Speech
motion, but insists that ministers must abstain. "It's starting to be horribly
reminiscent of the late 1990s," one Downing Street source admits. "People here
are very cross and frustrated. When two Cabinet ministers get involved, that's
ominous - it's not as if these people aren't adept at avoiding hypothetical
questions. It is just bonkers to have this series of self-inflicted wounds."

Mr Cameron, a man who told his party it could only win if it stopped "banging on
about Europe", now finds himself presiding over a detailed debate about which
powers could be repatriated from Brussels. In No 10 there is a view that some
Tory MPs are more interested in leaving the EU than in having a Conservative
Government. Although voters are more Eurosceptic than when John Major battled
with his "bastards" over the Maastricht treaty, still only a minority see
changing Britain's relationship with Brussels as a priority. "It's about
proportion," says one Tory strategist. "People are worried about the cost of
living, their children's futures, the NHS - so the more we obsess about Europe
the more it reinforces the sense that we are out of touch as well as deeply
divided. Who is going to vote for a party that weird?" Mr Miliband, however, is
also drifting on to the old rocks. If the Tory vulnerability is Europe, Labour's
traditional weakness is the economy. In 1997 Tony Blair and Gordon Brown's
priority was to reassure voters who were haunted by memories of high taxes and
profligate spending. Mr Miliband has still not won back the reputation for
economic competence that was lost again in the crash.

Even though the Government is presiding over the deepest downturn for a
generation, with non-existent growth and prolonged austerity, the Opposition has
so far failed to present a persuasive alternative. There is a lack of coherence
on the deficit and too little clarity about how to generate growth. "Labour's
weak point has always been looking after other people's money," says one former
Labour Cabinet minister. "Ed Miliband has to deal with that. It's more
fundamental than reassurance. He has to demonstrate that he understands how a
modern capitalist economy works and that he's fit to run it."

In fact Labour is just as divided over tax and spending as the Tories are over
Europe. The splits may not have surfaced quite so acrimoniously in public yet,
but they are every bit as bitter behind the scenes. Shadow Cabinet ministers
differ over how far the party should go in detailing its own programme of cuts.
There are ideological disagreements about the size and scope of the State, as
well as fundamental clashes about the extent to which Labour should seek to
redistribute wealth. While Mr Miliband has championed a mansion tax and a levy
on bankers' bonuses, other senior figures believe he must now do more to show
that he also supports wealth creation. Some insiders are agitating for Ed Balls
to be removed as Shadow Chancellor in order to demonstrate a clear break with
the past. Meanwhile, Labour has become ever more financially dependent on the
trade unions as business backers shy away.

Lord Sainsbury of Turville - the multimillionaire businessman who gave £12
million to Labour under Mr Blair and Mr Brown - has written a book, out this
week, called Progressive Capitalism, which challenges many of his party's
assumptions. He begins by stating in no uncertain terms what Mr Miliband has
deliberately refused to say. "In retrospect the Labour Government should have
used the opportunity of a strongly growing economy to reduce the deficit, as
this would have reduced the pressure on the Government to cut back public
expenditure at a time when the economy was struggling to lift itself out of a
recession," he writes, before echoing a Tory mantra: "There is a lot to be said
for 'fixing the roof when the sun is shining'." Progressive politicians have, he
warns, done too little to reform the State and make it "fit for purpose",
leaving voters confused about whether Labour is defending the public interest or
the vested interests of public sector workers.

Another grandee from the new Labour years argues that Mr Miliband is happier
attacking big businesses - such as the energy companies or rail operators - than
he is making clear what he would do to support enterprise. "The Tories define
Conservatism as being anti-Europe, that's their leitmotiv, the test they apply
to a leader," he says. "There's a parallel with Labour people who fail to accept
that you need big business to survive."

F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote that: "There are only the pursued, the pursuing, the
busy and the tired." Most voters are too busy or too tired to notice much about
the politicians who are pursuing them. That is why political leaders must steer
vigorously and consistently against the current. Otherwise, borne ceaselessly
into the past, they will find themselves swept - like Jay Gatsby - to oblivion.

Behind the scenes, Labour is split just as bitterly as the Tories

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Like Jay Gatsby, Cameron and Miliband cannot escape their parties'
pasts
WARNER BROS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Obama gives team-mate more than a sporting chance on very sticky wicket

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 420 words


They may be two of the most powerful people in the world but, first and
foremost, they are men. "David still does not understand basketball," said
Barack Obama. "I still do not understand cricket."

David Cameron, face carefully arranged to show no emotion, even about sport
(actually especially about sport), agreed that he didn't get basketball and so
was moving on to baseball. "I've actually read a book about it!" To which you
can only say: "Play ball!" This turned out to be The Art of Fielding, a novel
that is indeed all about baseball but, also, the art of self-confidence. And for
Dave these days the whole ballgame is about Europe. There is something admirably
dogged about the way the issue follows him around the world. Last week it was
Russia, now it's America. Dave can run but he can't hide from the great debate
about a European referendum that may never happen. (Forget baseball, the Euro
fantasy vote game is way harder to follow.) The press conference with David and
Barack, as they called each other, having judged Dave and Barry to be a bit
chummy presumably, was hardly even that. They arrived in the East Room, gold
curtains a-swagging behind them, and talked a bit about baseball (and, oh yes,
Syria). They then took one question each. Democracy in action, these days, is a
truncated affair.

Dave's question was on, of course, Europe and how he'd vote if a referendum was
held today. "Look," he started, irritable, "there is not going to be a
referendum tomorrow and there is a very good reason why ..." The words came at
us, at speed and way too many of them. My favourite moment came when Dave told
us how popular his cunning plan to vote in 2017 on a new EU deal was. "It has
very strong support throughout the country and in the Conservative Party," he
insisted, as Barack looked across at him, eyes steady.

Barack may not understand cricket but he knows a man under pressure when he sees
one. So, in true baseball fashion, he stepped up to the plate. "I will say,"
said Barack, "that David's basic point that you probably want to see if you can
fix what's broken in a very important relationship before you break it off,
makes some sense to me."

David glowed. Barack was on his team! Barack was hitting a home run for him! The
most powerful man in the world (not on a cricket pitch, obviously) was backing
his fantasy Euro plan. Barack, who knew exactly what he was doing, added: "I
want to emphasise that these are issues for the people of the UK to make a
decision about, not ours." Obviously.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama stepped up to the plate to support David Cameron during
a press conference at the White House
JACQUELYN MARTIN / AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tories force Cameron to enshrine EU vote in law;
Tories force Cameron to enshrine EU vote in law

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 695 words


David Cameron has bowed to pressure from Tory rebels by guaranteeing in law his
promise to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

In an effort to draw a line under the party's turmoil, the Conservatives will
today publish a Bill ensuring an in-out vote before the end of 2017.

The Prime Minister's change of heart came 48 hours before more than 100
Conservative MPs and ministerial aides were due to vote against the Queen's
Speech because it lacked such a measure. Mr Cameron's surprise move, announced
while he was in the US, took senior Lib Dems by surprise and will lead to a
stand-off at the top of the coalition.

Nick Clegg's office said that the Deputy Prime Minister would refuse to allow
government time for the Bill, which makes it almost impossible for the measure
to pass into law even if it could command a Commons majority.

But the move is as much about setting up electoral dividing lines with Labour
and the Lib Dems and trying to restore order to restive Conservative ranks.

President Obama came to Mr Cameron's aid yesterday, warning mutinous Tories
against a hasty exit from the EU. As the Prime Minister struggled with another
day of internal rows over Europe, Mr Obama gave an unequivocal endorsement of Mr
Cameron's "negotiate now, vote later" European strategy.

He warned that the special relationship would suffer if the UK cut its ties with
Brussels. Britain's EU membership was "an expression of its influence", he said.
But, in a change of emphasis from the White House, he acknowledged that Mr
Cameron was within his rights to try to fix Britain's relationship with the EU.

"David's basic point, that you probably want to see if you can fix what's broken
in a very important relationship before you break it off, makes some sense to
me," the President said.

Mr Obama's endorsement, delivered alongside the Prime Minister at a White House
press conference, put a spring in the step of Mr Cameron's Continued on page 4,
col 1

Continued from page 1 entourage but is unlikely to cut much ice with Eurosceptic
Tories.

In Westminster, Cabinet ministers remained quiet after Mr Cameron chided Michael
Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, for
saying they would vote to leave the EU if a referendum were held today. He also
accused the likes of Lord Lawson of Blaby, who began the latest debate last week
with his call in The Times for Britain to quit the EU, and Michael Portillo, who
argued that any negotiation would get nowhere, of "throwing in the towel".

But Tories from either end of the party's spectrum on Europe were at
loggerheads.

Lord Forsyth of Drumlean became the latest former Cabinet minister to write off
Mr Cameron's EU strategy, saying that the task the Prime Minister had set
himself was impossible and that he had no hope of persuading Brussels to reform.
"To use an analogy, I think David Cameron is thinking he can persuade the golf
club to play tennis," the peer told the BBC.

The amendment, and the Tory Bill, would write into law Mr Cameron's commitment
to an in-out EU referendum in 2017, on new terms that he plans to negotiate.

Mr Obama's carefully delivered riposte represented a major and rare intervention
by a US President into British domestic politics.

He urged voters to wait and see the new relationship Mr Cameron could deliver.
"I, at least, would be interested in seeing whether or not those are successful
before rendering a final judgment," he said.

The White House had previously been opposed to any move towards a British exit,
a move that it believes would make its dealings with Europe more difficult.

Another Tory row was brewing as some MPs expressed interest in standing as
"Tory-UKIP" candidates in the 2015 general election.

Peter Bone and Philip Hollobone backed the idea of local arrangements, which
allowed Conservative candidates to seek the endorsement of Nigel Farage.

Conservative high command is resisting the idea but Mr Bone said that harnessing
the Tory and UKIP vote to one candidate would deliver Mr Cameron an overall
majority. "There's clearly a holy grail there if we can get the Prime Minister
to give a bit," he said.

Continued from page 1 entourage [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Two parties both riven by the same old splits;
The Tories are being sucked into the whirlpool of Europe, but Labour's division
on the economy runs just as deep

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1072 words


'So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the
past." How relevant the last line of The Great Gatsby seems right now, and not
just because Baz Luhrmann's new film is out this week.

At Westminster the political parties drift on the tide. David Cameron and Ed
Miliband seem helpless to fight the drag that pulls them inexorably back to
historical positions that have in each case been so destructive to their tribes.

The Conservatives are sucked yet again into the whirlpool of Europe. Down and
down they go into the depths as the grandees line up to call for Britain to pull
out of the EU. MPs table an amendment expressing "regret" at the absence of
legislation paving the way for a referendum on Europe in the Queen's Speech - a
petty procedural device that will make no practical difference to anything.
Cabinet ministers dive in, with Michael Gove and Philip Hammond saying that they
would vote to leave if there were a referendum tomorrow - a pointless threat,
except in personal political positioning terms, as there will be no such poll.
Boris Johnson, never one to resist an opportunity to rock the boat, insists that
Britain must show it is "willing to walk away" from the EU to get a good deal.

And so another Tory Prime Minister enters treacherous waters, his authority
challenged by in-fighting. Not waving but drowning, No 10 is powerless to
prevent a rebellion. It promises backbenchers a free vote on the Queen's Speech
motion, but insists that ministers must abstain. "It's starting to be horribly
reminiscent of the late 1990s," one Downing Street source admits. "People here
are very cross and frustrated. When two Cabinet ministers get involved, that's
ominous - it's not as if these people aren't adept at avoiding hypothetical
questions. It is just bonkers to have this series of self-inflicted wounds."

Mr Cameron, a man who told his party it could only win if it stopped "banging on
about Europe", now finds himselfpresiding over a detailed debate about which
powers could be repatriated from Brussels. In No 10 there is a view that some
Tory MPs are more interested in leaving the EU than in having a Conservative
Government. Although voters are more Eurosceptic than when John Major battled
with his "bastards" over the Maastricht treaty, still only a minority see
changing Britain's relationship with Brussels as a priority. "It's about
proportion," says one Tory strategist. "People are worried about the cost of
living, their children's futures, the NHS - so the more we obsess about Europe
the more it reinforces the sense that we are out of touch as well as deeply
divided. Who is going to vote for a party that weird?"

Mr Miliband, however, is also drifting on to the old rocks. If the Tory
vulnerability is Europe, Labour's traditional weakness is the economy. In 1997
Tony Blair and Gordon Brown's priority was to reassure voters who were haunted
by memories of high taxes and profligate spending. Mr Miliband has still not won
back the reputation for economic competence that was lost again in the crash.

Even though the Government is presiding over the deepest downturn for a
generation, with non-existent growth and prolonged austerity, the Opposition has
so far failed to present a persuasive alternative. There is a lack of coherence
on the deficit and too little clarity about how to generate growth. "Labour's
weak point has always been looking after other people's money," says one former
Labour Cabinet minister. "Ed Miliband has to deal with that. It's more
fundamental than reassurance. He has to demonstrate that he understands how a
modern capitalist economy works and that he's fit to run it."

In fact Labour is just as divided over tax and spending as the Tories are over
Europe. The splits may not have surfaced quite so acrimoniously in public yet,
but they are every bit as bitter behind the scenes. Shadow Cabinet ministers
differ over how far the party should go in detailing its own programme of cuts.
There are ideological disagreements about the size and scope of the State, as
well as fundamental clashes about the extent to which Labour should seek to
redistribute wealth. While Mr Miliband has championed a mansion tax and a levy
on bankers' bonuses, other senior figures believe he must now do more to show
that he also supports wealth creation. Some insiders are agitating for Ed Balls
to be removed as Shadow Chancellor in order to demonstrate a clear break with
the past. Meanwhile, Labour has become ever more financially dependent on the
trade unions as business backers shy away.

Lord Sainsbury of Turville - the multimillionaire businessman who gave £12
million to Labour under Mr Blair and Mr Brown - has written a book, out this
week, called Progressive Capitalism, which challenges many of his party's
assumptions. He begins by stating in no uncertain terms what Mr Miliband has
deliberately refused to say. "In retrospect the Labour Government should have
used the opportunity of a strongly growing economy to reduce the deficit, as
this would have reduced the pressure on the Government to cut back public
expenditure at a time when the economy was struggling to lift itself out of a
recession," he writes, before echoing a Tory mantra: "There is a lot to be said
for 'fixing the roof when the sun is shining'." Progressive politicians have, he
warns, done too little to reform the State and make it "fit for purpose",
leaving voters confused about whether Labour is defending the public interest or
the vested interests of public sector workers.

Another grandee from the new Labour years argues that Mr Miliband is happier
attacking big businesses - such as the energy companies or rail operators - than
he is making clear what he would do to support enterprise. "The Tories define
Conservatism as being anti-Europe, that's their leitmotiv, the test they apply
to a leader," he says. "There's a parallel with Labour people who fail to accept
that you need big business to survive."

F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote that: "There are only the pursued, the pursuing, the
busy and the tired." Most voters are too busy or too tired to notice much about
the politicians who are pursuing them. That is why political leaders must steer
vigorously and consistently against the current. Otherwise, borne ceaselessly
into the past, they will find themselves swept - like Jay Gatsby - to oblivion.

Behind the scenes, Labour is split just as bitterly as the Tories

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Like Jay Gatsby, Cameron and Miliband cannot escape their parties'
pasts
WARNER BROS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Obama gives team-mate more than a sporting chance on very sticky wicket

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 420 words


They may be two of the most powerful people in the world but, first and
foremost, they are men. "David still does not understand basketball," said
Barack Obama. "I still do not understand cricket."

David Cameron, face carefully arranged to show no emotion, even about sport
(actually especially about sport), agreed that he didn't get basketball and so
was moving on to baseball. "I've actually read a book about it!" To which you
can only say: "Play ball!" This turned out to be The Art of Fielding, a novel
that is indeed all about baseball but, also, the art of self-confidence. And for
Dave these days the whole ballgame is about Europe. There is something admirably
dogged about the way the issue follows him around the world. Last week it was
Russia, now it's America. Dave can run but he can't hide from the great debate
about a European referendum that may never happen. (Forget baseball, the Euro
fantasy vote game is way harder to follow.) The press conference with David and
Barack, as they called each other, having judged Dave and Barry to be a bit
chummy presumably, was hardly even that. They arrived in the East Room, gold
curtains a-swagging behind them, and talked a bit about baseball (and, oh yes,
Syria). They then took one question each. Democracy in action, these days, is a
truncated affair.

Dave's question was on, of course, Europe and how he'd vote if a referendum was
held today. "Look," he started, irritable, "there is not going to be a
referendum tomorrow and there is a very good reason why ..." The words came at
us, at speed and way too many of them. My favourite moment came when Dave told
us how popular his cunning plan to vote in 2017 on a new EU deal was. "It has
very strong support throughout the country and in the Conservative Party," he
insisted, as Barack looked across at him, eyes steady.

Barack may not understand cricket but he knows a man under pressure when he sees
one. So, in true baseball fashion, he stepped up to the plate. "I will say,"
said Barack, "that David's basic point that you probably want to see if you can
fix what's broken in a very important relationship before you break it off,
makes some sense to me."

David glowed. Barack was on his team! Barack was hitting a home run for him! The
most powerful man in the world (not on a cricket pitch, obviously) was backing
his fantasy Euro plan. Barack, who knew exactly what he was doing, added: "I
want to emphasise that these are issues for the people of the UK to make a
decision about, not ours." Obviously.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama stepped up to the plate to support David Cameron during
a press conference at the White House
JACQUELYN MARTIN / AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories force Cameron to enshrine EU vote in law;
Tories force Cameron to enshrine EU vote in law

BYLINE: Michael Savage; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 681 words


David Cameron has bowed to pressure from Tory rebels by guaranteeing in law his
promise to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

In an effort to draw a line under the party's turmoil, the Conservatives will
today publish a Bill ensuring an in-out vote before the end of 2017.

The Prime Minister's change of heart came 48 hours before more than 100
Conservative MPs and ministerial aides were due to vote against the Queen's
Speech because it lacked such a measure. Mr Cameron's surprise move, announced
while he was in the US, took senior Lib Dems by surprise and will lead to a
stand-off at the top of the coalition.

Nick Clegg's office said that the Deputy Prime Minister would refuse to allow
government time for the Bill, which makes it almost impossible for the measure
to pass into law even if it could command a Commons majority.

But the move is as much about setting up electoral dividing lines with Labour
and the Lib Dems and trying to restore order to restive Conservative ranks.

President Obama came to Mr Cameron's aid yesterday, warning mutinous Tories
against a hasty exit from the EU. As the Prime Minister struggled with another
day of internal rows over Europe, Mr Obama gave an unequivocal endorsement of Mr
Cameron's "negotiate now, vote later" European strategy.

He warned that the special relationship would suffer if the UK cut its ties with
Brussels. Britain's EU membership was "an expression of its influence", he said.
But, in a change of emphasis from the White House, he acknowledged that Mr
Cameron was within his rights to try to fix Britain's relationship with the EU.

"David's basic point, that you probably want to see if you can fix what's broken
in a very important relationship before you break it off, makes some sense to
me," the President said.

Mr Obama's endorsement, delivered alongside the Prime Minister at a White House
press conference, put a spring in the step of Mr Cameron's entourage but is
unlikely to cut much ice with Eurosceptic Tories.

In Westminster, Cabinet ministers remained quiet after Mr Cameron chided Michael
Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, for
saying they would vote to leave the EU if a referendum were held today. He also
accused the likes of Lord Lawson of Blaby, who began the latest debate last week
with his call in The Times for Britain to quit the EU, and Michael Portillo, who
argued that any negotiation would get nowhere, of "throwing in the towel".

But Tories from either end of the party's spectrum on Europe were at
loggerheads.

Lord Forsyth of Drumlean became the latest former Cabinet minister to write off
Mr Cameron's EU strategy, saying that the task the Prime Minister had set
himself was impossible and that he had no hope of persuading Brussels to reform.
"To use an analogy, I think David Cameron is thinking he can persuade the golf
club to play tennis," the peer told the BBC.

The amendment, and the Tory Bill, would write into law Mr Cameron's commitment
to an in-out EU referendum in 2017, on new terms that he plans to negotiate.

Mr Obama's carefully delivered riposte represented a major and rare intervention
by a US President into British domestic politics.

He urged voters to wait and see the new relationship Mr Cameron could deliver.
"I, at least, would be interested in seeing whether or not those are successful
before rendering a final judgment," he said.

The White House had previously been opposed to any move towards a British exit,
a move that it believes would make its dealings with Europe more difficult.

Another Tory row was brewing as some MPs expressed interest in standing as
"Tory-UKIP" candidates in the 2015 general election.

Peter Bone and Philip Hollobone backed the idea of local arrangements, which
allowed Conservative candidates to seek the endorsement of Nigel Farage.

Conservative high command is resisting the idea but Mr Bone said that harnessing
the Tory and UKIP vote to one candidate would deliver Mr Cameron an overall
majority. "There's clearly a holy grail there if we can get the Prime Minister
to give a bit," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Two parties both riven by the same old splits;
The Tories are being sucked into the whirlpool of Europe, but Labour's division
on the economy runs just as deep

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1053 words


'So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the
past." How relevant the last line of The Great Gatsby seems right now, and not
just because Baz Luhrmann's new film is out this week.

At Westminster the political parties drift on the tide. David Cameron and Ed
Miliband seem helpless to fight the drag that pulls them inexorably back to
historical positions that have in each case been so destructive to their tribes.

The Conservatives are sucked yet again into the whirlpool of Europe. The Prime
Minister - a man who told his party it could only win if it stopped "banging on"
about Brussels - has now said he will publish a draft "in-out" referendum Bill.

Down and down the Tories go into the depths as the grandees line up to call for
Britain to pull out of the EU. MPs table an amendment expressing "regret" at the
absence of legislation paving the way for a referendum in the Queen's Speech.
Cabinet ministers dive in, with Michael Gove and Philip Hammond saying that they
would vote to leave if there were a referendum tomorrow - a pointless threat,
except in personal political positioning terms, as there will be no such poll.

Boris Johnson, never one to resist an opportunity to rock the boat, insists that
Britain must show it is "willing to walk away" from the EU to get a good deal.

And so another Tory Prime Minister enters treacherous waters, his authority
challenged by in-fighting. Not waving but drowning, No 10 is powerless to
prevent a rebellion. It promises backbenchers a free vote on the Queen's Speech
motion, but insists that ministers must abstain. "It's starting to be horribly
reminiscent of the late 1990s," one Downing Street source admits. "People here
are very cross and frustrated. When two Cabinet ministers get involved, that's
ominous - it's not as if these people aren't adept at avoiding hypothetical
questions. It is just bonkers to have this series of self-inflicted wounds."

In No 10 there is a view that some Tory MPs are more interested in leaving the
EU than in having a Conservative Government. Although voters are more
Eurosceptic than when John Major battled with his "bastards" over the Maastricht
treaty, still only a minority see changing Britain's relationship with Brussels
as a priority. "It's about proportion," says one Tory strategist. "People are
worried about the cost of living, their children's futures, the NHS - so the
more we obsess about Europe the more it reinforces the sense that we are out of
touch as well as deeply divided. Who is going to vote for a party that weird?"
Mr Miliband, however, is also drifting on to the old rocks. If the Tory
vulnerability is Europe, Labour's traditional weakness is the economy. In 1997
Tony Blair and Gordon Brown's priority was to reassure voters who were haunted
by memories of high taxes and profligate spending. Mr Miliband has still not won
back the reputation for economic competence that was lost again in the crash.

Even though the Government is presiding over the deepest downturn for a
generation, with non-existent growth and prolonged austerity, the Opposition has
so far failed to present a persuasive alternative. There is a lack of coherence
on the deficit and too little clarity about how to generate growth. "Labour's
weak point has always been looking after other people's money," says one former
Labour Cabinet minister. "Ed Miliband has to deal with that. It's more
fundamental than reassurance. He has to demonstrate that he understands how a
modern capitalist economy works and that he's fit to run it."

In fact Labour is just as divided over tax and spending as the Tories are over
Europe. The splits may not have surfaced quite so acrimoniously in public yet,
but they are every bit as bitter behind the scenes. Shadow Cabinet ministers
differ over how far the party should go in detailing its own programme of cuts.
There are ideological disagreements about the size and scope of the State, as
well as fundamental clashes about the extent to which Labour should seek to
redistribute wealth. While Mr Miliband has championed a mansion tax and a levy
on bankers' bonuses, other senior figures believe he must now do more to show
that he also supports wealth creation. Some insiders are agitating for Ed Balls
to be removed as Shadow Chancellor in order to demonstrate a clear break with
the past. Meanwhile, Labour has become ever more financially dependent on the
trade unions as business backers shy away.

Lord Sainsbury of Turville - the multimillionaire businessman who gave £12
million to Labour under Mr Blair and Mr Brown - has written a book, out this
week, called Progressive Capitalism, which challenges many of his party's
assumptions. He begins by stating in no uncertain terms what Mr Miliband has
deliberately refused to say. "In retrospect the Labour Government should have
used the opportunity of a strongly growing economy to reduce the deficit, as
this would have reduced the pressure on the Government to cut back public
expenditure at a time when the economy was struggling to lift itself out of a
recession," he writes, before echoing a Tory mantra: "There is a lot to be said
for 'fixing the roof when the sun is shining'."

Progressive politicians have, he warns, done too little to reform the State and
make it "fit for purpose", leaving voters confused about whether Labour is
defending the public interest or the vested interests of public sector workers.

Another grandee from the new Labour years argues that Mr Miliband is happier
attacking big businesses - such as the energy companies or rail operators - than
he is making clear what he would do to support enterprise. "The Tories define
Conservatism as being anti-Europe, that's their leitmotiv, the test they apply
to a leader," he says. "There's a parallel with Labour people who fail to accept
that you need big business to survive."

F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote that: "There are only the pursued, the pursuing, the
busy and the tired." Most voters are too busy or too tired to notice much about
the politicians who are pursuing them. That is why political leaders must steer
vigorously and consistently against the current. Otherwise, borne ceaselessly
into the past, they will find themselves swept - like Jay Gatsby - to oblivion.

Behind the scenes, Labour is split just as bitterly as the Tories

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Like Jay Gatsby, Cameron and Miliband cannot escape their parties'
pasts
WARNER BROS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tories force Cameron to enshrine EU vote in law

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 693 words


David Cameron has bowed to pressure from Tory rebels by guaranteeing in law his
promise to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

In an effort to draw a line under the party's turmoil, the Conservatives will
today publish a Bill ensuring an in-out vote before the end of 2017.

The Prime Minister's change of heart came 48 hours before more than 100
Conservative MPs and ministerial aides were due to vote against the Queen's
Speech because it lacked such a measure. Mr Cameron's surprise move, announced
while he was in the US, took senior Lib Dems by surprise and will lead to a
stand-off at the top of the coalition.

Nick Clegg's office said that the Deputy Prime Minister would refuse to allow
government time for the Bill, which makes it almost impossible for the measure
to pass into law even if it could command a Commons majority.

But the move is as much about setting up electoral dividing lines with Labour
and the Lib Dems and trying to restore order to restive Conservative ranks. Tory
chiefs will offer today's draft Bill to any willing Conservative MP who comes
near the top of Thursday's ballot for Private Member's Bills.

President Obama came to Mr Cameron's aid yesterday, warning against a hasty exit
from the EU. As the Prime Minister struggled with another day of internal rows
over Europe, Mr Obama gave an unequivocal endorsement of Mr Cameron's "negotiate
now, vote later" European strategy.

He warned that the special relationship would suffer if the UK cut its ties with
Brussels. Britain's EU membership was "an expression of its influence", he said.
But, in a change of emphasis from the White House, he acknowledged that Mr
Cameron was within his rights to try to fix Britain's relationship with the EU.

"David's basic point, that you probably want to see if you can fix what's broken
in a very important relationship before you break it off, makes some sense to
me," the President said.

Mr Obama's endorsement, delivered alongside the Prime Minister at a White House
press conference, put a spring in the step of Mr Cameron's entourage but is
unlikely to cut much ice with Eurosceptic Conservatives.

In Westminster, Cabinet ministers remained quiet after Mr Cameron chided Michael
Gove and Philip Hammond for saying that they would vote to leave the EU if a
referendum were held today. He also accused the likes of Lord Lawson of Blaby,
who called in The Times last week for Britain to quit the EU, and Michael
Portillo, who argued that any negotiation would get nowhere, of "throwing in the
towel".

But Conservatives from either end of the party's spectrum on Europe were at
loggerheads. Lord Forsyth of Drumlean became the latest former Cabinet minister
to write off Mr Cameron's EU strategy, saying that the task the Prime Minister
had set himself was impossible and that he had no hope of persuading Brussels to
reform. "To use an analogy, I think David Cameron is thinking he can persuade
the golf club to play tennis," the peer told the BBC.

The amendment, and the Tory Bill, would write into law Mr Cameron's commitment
to an in-out EU referendum in 2017, on new terms that he plans to negotiate.

Mr Obama's carefully delivered riposte represented a major and rare intervention
by a US President into British domestic politics.

He urged voters to wait and see the new relationship Mr Cameron could deliver.
"I, at least, would be interested in seeing whether or not those are successful
before rendering a final judgment," he said.

The White House had previously been opposed to any move towards a British exit,
a move that it believes would make its dealings with Europe more difficult.

Another Tory row was brewing as some MPs expressed interest in standing as
"Tory-UKIP" candidates in the 2015 general election.

Peter Bone and Philip Hollobone backed the idea of local arrangements, which
allowed Conservative candidates to seek the endorsement of Nigel Farage.

Conservative high command is resisting the idea but Mr Bone said that harnessing
the Tory and UKIP vote to one candidate would deliver Mr Cameron an overall
majority. "There's clearly a holy grail there if we can get the Prime Minister
to give a bit," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Trade and the single European market;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 525 words


Sir, There is a basic weakness in Mr Portillo's contention (Opinion, May 9). He
would have us leave the EU because we have a different vision.

But we also have to trade. We have to produce goods and services to satisfy our
own needs and to offset what we import. Membership of the EU gives us free and
equal access to the single market which absorbs nearly half of our exports. For
that access we need to pay the fee which gives us the right to participate in
the formulation of policy.

If we left the EU we would no longer have free access to the single market. We
would be faced with tariff barriers and non-tariff barriers which could be many
and various and seriously impede trade flows.

We could negotiate a special deal to retain access to the single market but it
would inevitably have a cost, so we could end up having to pay for continued
free access to the single market without any possibility of influencing policy.
Is this what Mr Portillo wants? lord ezra House of Lords Sir, Alistair Darling
(Opinion, May 10) argues that UK trade with the EU would be reduced by our
withdrawal.

No EU company trades with the UK out of regard for our continuing membership,
but rather, on a case by case basis, because a UK company offers the optimal
terms. Modern corporate management is very focused and is unlikely to squander
an opportunity merely because of an altered political relationship with Europe.

stephen gibbs-sier Cambridge Sir, The economic case for leaving the EU is
greater than Lord Lawson (Opinion, May 8) and Michael Portillo suggest. We would
not lose any of our trading rights with EU countries, because they sell more to
us than we sell to them, and they would not wish to be excluded from the UK
market by excluding us from the EU market. Apart from other economic gains, we
would regain the £8 billion the UK pays to Brussels every year. That would do
more to reduce the deficit than the present deficit reduction plans.

stephen vizinczey London SW5 Sir, Daniel Finkelstein (Opinion, May 8) should
appreciate that views regarded as right-wing some years ago now reflect the
views of a majority and should more accurately be described as centrist. The
political centre ground on both immigration and Europe has shifted.

Most people want strict controls on migrants to our country - after all, no one
has provided a convincing explanation why, since 1999, over 250,000 net migrants
(mostly non-EU) should have been allowed to settle in the UK every year. This
was four times the figure of the previous two decades.

On Europe most people are "eurosceptic". They have serious doubts about the EU
and want radically to reshape our relationship so that it is based primarily on
the single market without interference in other policy areas.

Before the European elections in May 2014 we will need to see that tough border
controls are in place and immigration has been returned to pre-Labour levels;
that the powers we shall bring back from Brussels are substantive and
identified; and there is a firm guarantee of a referendum. Most critical of all,
of course, the economy will need to be tangibly on the upturn.

geoffrey van orden, mep Chelmsford

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Trading places: freight trucks board a cross-Channel ferry bound for
market
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, RICHARD POHLE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Looking In or Out;
The leaders of all three main parties are in weak positions and spending too
much time on internal divisions. The prize will be for the one who can address
the country

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 637 words


There is a case for not wanting to win the next general election. Even with the
early signs of economic recovery, the victorious party in 2015 will inherit a
programme of spending cuts that will soon wipe away its popularity. In a
fractured political landscape it will be hard for any party to win the
convincing mandate that it would want and require. It seems, from the way in
which all three parties are behaving at the moment, that they may have convinced
themselves that a period in the leisure of opposition might be desirable.

If so, that is behaviour for which they will all come to repent. The
Conservative Party is once again immersed in the question of Europe. The future
of Britain in the EU is a vital issue and the time will soon come when it needs
to be settled. But it will be no help to the Government to have ministers of
state voting, apparently with the relaxed consent of the Prime Minister, against
the Government's own Queen's Speech because it did not include a Bill to
enshrine a referendum on the European Union.

While Cabinet ministers squabble over who is an In and who is an Out - with
Michael Gove now saying that he would vote to leave the EU if there were a
referendum today - senior Conservatives such as Liam Fox and Michael Portillo,
both former Defence Secretaries, have accused the Prime Minister of losing
control of his party, and by repeating the accusation in public, make it so. A
series of amendments to the gay marriage Bill have been tabled by David Burrowes
and as many as 150 MPs may well back them.

At the same time, the Prime Minister is suffering an opposite, if not quite
equal, reaction from the MPs of the 2020 group, who have urged him to show "true
leadership", but by taking the party in the opposite direction. Even if Mr
Cameron has to make enemies in the process, they say, he has to be true to what
he actually believes.

In normal political circumstances, these divisions could be the start of a fatal
disunity. The Conservative Party is being helped in this regard by the failure
of the other two parties to capitalise. The Liberal Democrat leader, the Deputy
Prime Minister Nick Clegg, is shoring up his position with his own party
activists as he fears leadership manoeuvres from friends of the Business
Secretary, Vince Cable. Last week Mr Clegg scuppered government plans for
childcare to which he had previously assented.

The Labour leader, Ed Miliband, has his own sea of troubles. The national
projection of the Labour Party's results in the local elections a week ago
suggest that it is polling about 29 per cent, which is another way of saying
that the party has made no progress since the 2010 general election. This poor
performance has the effect of scaring off potential corporate funders. The Times
reports today that Lord Sainsbury of Turville, who has been a substantial
financial backer of the Labour Party, regards the current leader as "average"
and has given the party nothing since 2010. When Labour struggles to attract
corporate funding, the party is driven into the arms of the trade unions,
especially the dominant Unite union, which is now paying most of the bills.

All three parties are therefore spending their time looking inwards, seeking to
please their own supporters. Meanwhile, the country, which is a long way from an
economic recovery position, faces some serious questions about how it will pay
its way in the future. While all this political energy is expended on internal
affairs it is small wonder that the electorate are tempted to express a protest
vote when they are given the opportunity.

All three leaders are in a weak position within their own parties. None can
count on unequivocal support. But the only antidote to a weak position is strong
leadership and the race to the next election will be won by the one who shows
it.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cabinet split on Europe as ministers look to exit

BYLINE: Billy Kenber; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words


David Cameron is facing a growing Cabinet split over Britain's EU membership
after two senior Tory ministers admitted that they would vote "no" if a
referendum were held today.

Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence
Secretary, became yesterday the first Cabinet members to state explicitly that
they would pull out if Britain's relationship with Europe could not
significantly be changed.

Their comments will fan the flames of Conservative Euroscepticism and pile more
pressure on the Prime Minister before a key Commons vote this week. More than
100 Tory backbenchers, including ministerial aides, are preparing to back an
amendment criticising the Queen's Speech in an unusual act of licensed
rebellion.

The statute, which is expected to be put to a vote on Wednesday, expresses
"regret" at the absence of legislation strengthening Mr Cameron's pledge to hold
an EU referendum in 2017. The Prime Minister will use a three-day trip to the
United States today to begin making the case for keeping Britain in the EU, as
he attempts to move on from the rows engulfing his party.

But his Cabinet ministers' comments put Mr Cameron under pressure to toughen his
stance on Europe, amid warnings from a Tory grandee that the Conservative leader
had "lost control" of his party. Mr Cameron has pledged to hold an in-out
referendum in 2017 if the Conservatives win the next election.

In a speech in January setting out his pledge, the Prime Minister indicated that
he favoured staying in Europe, warning that leaving the EU would rob Britain of
influence and threaten jobs and security. At the time, he said that he would
fight "with all my heart and soul" to campaign to stay in if he could secure
some kind of new settlement.

Mr Gove, in an interview yesterday,said that he supported the Prime Minister's
plan to renegotiate Britain's relationship with Europe before holding a poll.
However, he admitted that he would vote "no" if a referendum were held today.
"Life outside would be perfectly tolerable. We could contemplate it. There would
be certain advantages," he said.

Mr Hammond echoed his colleague's remarks, saying yesterday that it would be
"defeatist" to leave the EU without attempting reform.

Michael Portillo, a former Defence Secretary, said that Mr Cameron "is in a very
difficult position and clearly doesn't have control" of his party. ". A third
Cabinet minister, Chris Grayling, also appeared to indicate that he supported
leaving the EU. In an interview with The Sunday Times he said that Britain
"cannot and should not continue without a change in its current relationship
with the European Union".

Another former Defence Secretary, Liam Fox, said that he was confident that
there were other Cabinet members who shared the views of Mr Gove and Mr Hammond.

Downing Street sources said that Mr Cameron remained "very relaxed" about the
amendment, but No 10 has moved to limit the damage by allowing backbenchers and
parliamentary private secretaries a free vote. Ministers will be expected to
abstain, creating the situation in which they will not vote to back their own
government's legislative programme.

The Prime Minister will try to shift the debate today by saying as he meets
President Obama that a possible trade deal between the EU and the US could add
£10 billion to Britain's economy.

Mr Gove also tried to deflect attention on to the Lib Dems by suggesting that
there was a plot to topple Nick Clegg as leader. He said that the Deputy Prime
Minister had opposed plans to allow nursery staff to look after more children at
any one time only in a move to shore up his position.

Mr Gove alleged that there was a "campaign" led by Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove
Bay to "destablise" Mr Clegg to make way for Vince Cable to take over as leader.
"Nick, understandably, needs to show Lib Dems that he is fighting hard. I
understand. That's one of the things that happen in coalition," the Education
Secretaryadded.

Lib Dem sources moved quickly to insist that Mr Clegg was expected to lead the
party unchallenged into the 2015 general election. "It seems clear from
[yesterday] morning that the only person with leadership ambitions is Michael
Gove," a source close to Dr Cable said. "This is clearly an attempt by the
Tories to deflect the attention from the fact they're in complete turmoil over
Europe."

Labour are expected to join the Lib Dems in opposing the amendment. Ed Balls,
the Shadow Chancellor, said that it would be "destabilising" to commit to a
referendum while there was an effort to reform the EU.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trade and the single European market;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 525 words


Sir, There is a basic weakness in Mr Portillo's contention (Opinion, May 9). He
would have us leave the EU because we have a different vision.

But we also have to trade. We have to produce goods and services to satisfy our
own needs and to offset what we import. Membership of the EU gives us free and
equal access to the single market which absorbs nearly half of our exports. For
that access we need to pay the fee which gives us the right to participate in
the formulation of policy.

If we left the EU we would no longer have free access to the single market. We
would be faced with tariff barriers and non-tariff barriers which could be many
and various and seriously impede trade flows.

We could negotiate a special deal to retain access to the single market but it
would inevitably have a cost, so we could end up having to pay for continued
free access to the single market without any possibility of influencing policy.
Is this what Mr Portillo wants? lord ezra House of Lords Sir, Alistair Darling
(Opinion, May 10) argues that UK trade with the EU would be reduced by our
withdrawal.

No EU company trades with the UK out of regard for our continuing membership,
but rather, on a case by case basis, because a UK company offers the optimal
terms. Modern corporate management is very focused and is unlikely to squander
an opportunity merely because of an altered political relationship with Europe.

stephen gibbs-sier Cambridge Sir, The economic case for leaving the EU is
greater than Lord Lawson (Opinion, May 8) and Michael Portillo suggest. We would
not lose any of our trading rights with EU countries, because they sell more to
us than we sell to them, and they would not wish to be excluded from the UK
market by excluding us from the EU market. Apart from other economic gains, we
would regain the £8 billion the UK pays to Brussels every year. That would do
more to reduce the deficit than the present deficit reduction plans.

stephen vizinczey London SW5 Sir, Daniel Finkelstein (Opinion, May 8) should
appreciate that views regarded as right-wing some years ago now reflect the
views of a majority and should more accurately be described as centrist. The
political centre ground on both immigration and Europe has shifted.

Most people want strict controls on migrants to our country - after all, no one
has provided a convincing explanation why, since 1999, over 250,000 net migrants
(mostly non-EU) should have been allowed to settle in the UK every year. This
was four times the figure of the previous two decades.

On Europe most people are "eurosceptic". They have serious doubts about the EU
and want radically to reshape our relationship so that it is based primarily on
the single market without interference in other policy areas.

Before the European elections in May 2014 we will need to see that tough border
controls are in place and immigration has been returned to pre-Labour levels;
that the powers we shall bring back from Brussels are substantive and
identified; and there is a firm guarantee of a referendum. Most critical of all,
of course, the economy will need to be tangibly on the upturn.

geoffrey van orden, mep Chelmsford

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Trading places: freight trucks board a cross-Channel ferry bound for
market
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER, RICHARD POHLE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Looking In or Out;
The leaders of all three main parties are in weak positions and spending too
much time on internal divisions. The prize will be for the one who can address
the country

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 637 words


There is a case for not wanting to win the next general election. Even with the
early signs of economic recovery, the victorious party in 2015 will inherit a
programme of spending cuts that will soon wipe away its popularity. In a
fractured political landscape it will be hard for any party to win the
convincing mandate that it would want and require. It seems, from the way in
which all three parties are behaving at the moment, that they may have convinced
themselves that a period in the leisure of opposition might be desirable.

If so, that is behaviour for which they will all come to repent. The
Conservative Party is once again immersed in the question of Europe. The future
of Britain in the EU is a vital issue and the time will soon come when it needs
to be settled. But it will be no help to the Government to have ministers of
state voting, apparently with the relaxed consent of the Prime Minister, against
the Government's own Queen's Speech because it did not include a Bill to
enshrine a referendum on the European Union.

While Cabinet ministers squabble over who is an In and who is an Out - with
Michael Gove now saying that he would vote to leave the EU if there were a
referendum today - senior Conservatives such as Liam Fox and Michael Portillo,
both former Defence Secretaries, have accused the Prime Minister of losing
control of his party, and by repeating the accusation in public, make it so. A
series of amendments to the gay marriage Bill have been tabled by David Burrowes
and as many as 150 MPs may well back them.

At the same time, the Prime Minister is suffering an opposite, if not quite
equal, reaction from the MPs of the 2020 group, who have urged him to show "true
leadership", but by taking the party in the opposite direction. Even if Mr
Cameron has to make enemies in the process, they say, he has to be true to what
he actually believes.

In normal political circumstances, these divisions could be the start of a fatal
disunity. The Conservative Party is being helped in this regard by the failure
of the other two parties to capitalise. The Liberal Democrat leader, the Deputy
Prime Minister Nick Clegg, is shoring up his position with his own party
activists as he fears leadership manoeuvres from friends of the Business
Secretary, Vince Cable. Last week Mr Clegg scuppered government plans for
childcare to which he had previously assented.

The Labour leader, Ed Miliband, has his own sea of troubles. The national
projection of the Labour Party's results in the local elections a week ago
suggest that it is polling about 29 per cent, which is another way of saying
that the party has made no progress since the 2010 general election. This poor
performance has the effect of scaring off potential corporate funders. The Times
reports today that Lord Sainsbury of Turville, who has been a substantial
financial backer of the Labour Party, regards the current leader as "average"
and has given the party nothing since 2010. When Labour struggles to attract
corporate funding, the party is driven into the arms of the trade unions,
especially the dominant Unite union, which is now paying most of the bills.

All three parties are therefore spending their time looking inwards, seeking to
please their own supporters. Meanwhile, the country, which is a long way from an
economic recovery position, faces some serious questions about how it will pay
its way in the future. While all this political energy is expended on internal
affairs it is small wonder that the electorate are tempted to express a protest
vote when they are given the opportunity.

All three leaders are in a weak position within their own parties. None can
count on unequivocal support. But the only antidote to a weak position is strong
leadership and the race to the next election will be won by the one who shows
it.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cabinet split on Europe as ministers look to exit;
Cabinet split on Europe as ministers look to exit

BYLINE: Billy Kenber; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 757 words


David Cameron is facing a growing Cabinet split over Britain's EU membership
after two senior Tory ministers admitted that they would vote "no" if a
referendum were held today.

Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence
Secretary, became yesterday the first Cabinet members to state explicitly that
they would pull out if Britain's relationship with Europe could not
significantly be changed.

Their comments will fan the flames of Conservative Euroscepticism and pile more
pressure on the Prime Minister before a key Commons vote this week. More than
100 Tory backbenchers, including ministerial aides, are preparing to back an
amendment criticising the Queen's Speech in an unusual act of licensed
rebellion.

The statute, which is expected to be put to a vote on Wednesday, expresses
"regret" at the absence of legislation strengthening Mr Cameron's pledge to hold
an EU referendum in 2017. The Prime Minister will use a three-day trip to the
United States today to begin making the case for keeping Britain in the EU, as
he attempts to move on from the rows engulfing his party.

But his Cabinet ministers' comments put Mr Cameron under pressure to toughen his
stance on Europe, amid warnings from a Tory grandee that the Conservative leader
had "lost control" of his party. Mr Cameron has pledged to hold an in-out
referendum in 2017 if the Conservatives win the next election.

In a speech in January setting out his pledge, the Prime Minister indicated that
he favoured staying in Europe, warning that leaving the EU would rob Britain of
influence and threaten jobs and security. At the time, he said that he would
fight "with all my heart and soul" to campaign to stay in if he could secure
some kind of new settlement.

Mr Gove, in an interview yesterday,  said that he supported the Prime Minister's
plan to renegotiate Britain's relationship with Europe before holding a poll.
However, he admitted that he would vote "no" if a referendum were held today.
"Life outside would be perfectly tolerable. We could contemplate it. There would
be certain advantages," he said.

Mr Hammond echoed his colleague's remarks, saying yesterday that it would be
"defeatist" to leave the EU without attempting reform.

Michael Portillo, a former Defence Secretary, said that Mr Cameron "is in a very
difficult position and clearly doesn't have control of his party". A third
Cabinet minister, Chris Grayling, also appeared to indicate that he supported
leaving the EU. In an interview with The Sunday Times he said that Britain
"cannot and should not continue without a change in its current relationship
with the European Union".

Another former Defence Secretary, Liam Fox, said that he was confident that
there were other Cabinet members who shared the views of Mr Gove and Mr Hammond.

Downing Street sources said that Mr Cameron remained "very relaxed" about the
amendment, but No 10 has moved to limit the damage by allowing backbenchers and
parliamentary private secretaries a free vote. Ministers will be expected to
abstain, creating the situation in which they will not vote to back their own
government's legislative programme.

The Prime Minister will try to shift the debate today by saying as he meets
President Obama that a possible trade deal between the EU and the US could add
£10 billion to Britain's economy.

Mr Gove also tried to deflect attention on to the Lib Dems by suggesting that
there was a plot to topple Nick Clegg as leader. He said that the Deputy Prime
Minister had opposed plans to allow nursery staff to look after more children at
any one time only in a move to shore up his position.

Mr Gove alleged that there was a "campaign" led by Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove
Bay to "destablise" Mr Clegg to make way for Vince Cable to take over as leader.
"Nick, understandably, needs to show Lib Dems that he is fighting hard. I
understand. That's one of the things that happen in coalition," the Education
Secretary added.

Lib Dem sources moved quickly to insist that Mr Clegg was expected to lead the
party unchallenged into the 2015 general election. "It seems clear from
[yesterday] morning that the only person with leadership ambitions is Michael
Gove," a source close to Dr Cable said. "This is clearly an attempt by the
Tories to deflect the attention from the fact they're in complete turmoil over
Europe."

Labour are expected to join the Lib Dems in opposing the amendment. Ed Balls,
the Shadow Chancellor, said that it would be "destabilising" to commit to a
referendum while there was an effort to reform the EU.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cabinet split on Europe as ministers look to exit;
Cabinet split on Europe as ministers look to exit

BYLINE: Billy Kenber; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 771 words


David Cameron is facing a growing Cabinet split over Britain's EU membership
after two senior Tory ministers admitted that they would vote "no" if a
referendum were held today.

Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence
Secretary, became yesterday the first Cabinet members to state explicitly that
they would pull out if Britain's relationship with Europe could not be changed
significantly.

Their comments will fan the flames of Conservative Euroscepticism and pile more
pressure on the Prime Minister before a key Commons vote this week. More than
100 Tory backbenchers, including ministerial aides, are preparing to back an
amendment criticising the Queen's Speech in an unusual act of licensed
rebellion.

The statute, which is expected to be put to a vote on Wednesday, expresses
"regret" at the absence of legislation strengthening Mr Cameron's pledge to hold
an EU referendum in 2017. The Prime Minister will use a three-day trip to the
United States today to begin making the case for keeping Britain in the EU, as
he attempts to move on from the rows engulfing his party.

But his Cabinet ministers' comments put Mr Cameron under pressure to toughen his
stance on Europe, amid warnings from a Tory grandee that the Conservative leader
had "lost control" of his party. Mr Cameron has pledged to hold an in-out
referendum in 2017 if the Conservatives win the next election.

Boris Johnson re-entered the debate yesterday with a warning that Britain's
problems would not be solved by leaving Europe because British workers suffer
from "sloth". The Mayor of London said that he supported legislation to
guarantee a referendum but said the "sterile debate" on the EU risked
overshadowing more important questions on the economy. He wrote in

The Daily Telegraph: "If we left the EU, we would end this sterile debate, and
we would have to recognise that most of our problems are not caused by
'Bwussels', but by chronic British shorttermism, inadequate management, sloth,
low skills, a culture of easy gratification and underinvestment in human and
physical capital and infrastructure."

In a speech in January setting out his pledge, the Prime Minister indicated that
he favoured staying in Europe, warning that leaving the EU would rob Britain of
influence and threaten jobs and security. At the time, he said that he would
fight "with all my heart and soul" to campaign to stay in if he could secure
some kind of new settlement.

Mr Gove, in an interview yesterday, said that he supported the Prime Minister's
plan to renegotiate Britain's relationship with Europe before holding a poll.
However, he admitted that he would vote "no" if a referendum were held today.
"Life outside would be perfectly tolerable. There would be certain advantages,"
he said.

Mr Hammond echoed his remarks, saying yesterday that it would be "defeatist" to
leave the EU without attempting reform.

Michael Portillo, a former Defence Secretary, said that Mr Cameron "is in a very
difficult position and clearly doesn't have control of his party". A third
Cabinet minister, Chris Grayling, also appeared to indicate that he supported
leaving the EU. In an interview with The Sunday Times he said that Britain
"cannot and should not continue without a change in its current relationship
with the European Union". Downing Street sources said that Mr Cameron remained
"very relaxed" about the amendment, but No 10 has moved to limit the damage by
allowing backbenchers and parliamentary private secretaries a free vote.
Ministers will be expected to abstain, creating the situation in which they will
not vote to back their own government's legislative programme.

The Prime Minister will try to shift the debate today by saying as he meets
President Obama that a possible trade deal between the EU and the US could add
£10 billion to Britain's economy. Mr Gove also tried to deflect attention on to
the Lib Dems by suggesting that there was a plot to topple Nick Clegg as leader.
He said that the Deputy Prime Minister had opposed plans to allow nursery staff
to look after more children at any one time only in a move to shore up his
position.

Mr Gove alleged that there was a "campaign" led by Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove
Bay to "destablise" Mr Clegg to make way for Vince Cable to take over as leader.
Lib Dem sources moved quickly to insist that Mr Clegg was expected to lead the
party unchallenged into the 2015 general election.

Labour are expected to join the Lib Dems in opposing the amendment. Ed Balls,
the Shadow Chancellor, said that it would be "destabilising" to commit to a
referendum while there was an effort to reform the EU.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

David Cameron could vote [...]

BYLINE: Billy Kenber

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 85 words


? David Cameron could vote in favour of an amendment criticising his own Queen's
Speech for failing to include an EU referendum Bill (Billy Kenber writes).

Tory backbenchers want to force a Commons vote in protest at the Prime
Minister's failure to table legislation to strengthen his pledge to hold an EU
membership poll in 2017.

Mr Cameron's spokesman said yesterday that he was "relaxed" about the move and
refused to rule out the possibility that he might back the amendment, which he
would "carefully consider".

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Raised voices do not convince me on Europe;
It is hard to share the certainties of either side in the in-out argument. We
don't-knows deserve better

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1169 words


The spotlight was literally upon me. I was on the stage in a huge marquee on a
cliff's edge in a gale, speaking at the Fowey Festival of Words and Music in
Cornwall two days ago. Questions from the floor had moved to the issue of a
referendum on EU membership. "How would I vote?" someone asked. In? Or out?
"Shake it all about" was not an option.

There can be few more hapless creatures than an opinion writer without an
opinion. He has three options: (1) silence (2) honesty or (3) tossing a coin,
then working himself into a state of synthetic certitude. Silence seems
cowardly. Synthetic certitude - "strong opinions, weakly held" - are the
columnist's, the barrister's and the saloon-bar bore's besetting sin.

Which leaves honesty. And the honest answer is that I do not know. I flap
wretchedly in the breeze. Such uncertainty should be declared: not because this
columnist's indecision is interesting in itself, but because - if I'm right -
there are more people in Britain who share my frame of mind than the confident
minorities on both sides begin to imagine.

The inquiring student of modern politics spends so much time staring at
pollsters' pie charts in distinctive primary colours that we slip into the
supposition that when it comes to opinions, our population is composed, as a pie
chart is, of brightly coloured slices. But it might be closer to the truth to
remark that it is not the population as a whole that resembles a multisliced pie
chart, but each individual within it. The colourful pie sits within the
citizen's own breast, each of us being, to some degree, a microcosmic picture of
conflicting current opinions.

We're all capable of believing several contradictory things before breakfast;
but some of our opinions are held more strongly, or entertained more often, or
admitted to more readily, than others. From this internal tussle it is the
opinion that has the upper hand at the time of asking that we will offer
pollsters as our own; but that does not mean that, beneath the surface, there's
no wrestling going on.

I am not ashamed to be the reflection I believe I am, of the hesitation and
internal struggle of millions. And though our self-contradictions defy logic,
they elevate us above those who think that whether Britain stays or leaves could
possibly be a no-brainer. I'm still fuming at an MP friend's remark that David
Cameron's choice here is between acting in the national interest, or against it.
As if it isn't possible for intelligent patriots to differ. What an idiotic
glass through which to see our politics.

The airy certainties of both sides' spear carriers are breathtaking. Nick Clegg
thinks that he knows, and can announce, the number of jobs (conveniently rounded
to the nearest million) that would be lost if Britain left the EU. Well, if
apologists for membership think they can reduce the argument to spraying out
spurious statistics and bloodcurdling threats, and waffling about peace across
the continent, then the Europhile stockade is no place for me.

Repelled by smug Europhile certainties, I turn the other way. I read Nigel
Lawson and Michael Portillo in The Times this week and run straight into
spurious certainties of another sort. From Lord Lawson's column one expects
arguments, but encounters mainly assertions. Lord Lawson may be right that Mr
Cameron's renegotiation of our terms of membership (if it happens) will prove
"inconsequential" - many of us share doubts about what's achievable - but if
what the PM brings home looks negligible, we can vote, if we wish, to reject it.
Nor is it obvious - as Lord Lawson baldly states - that the "underperformance"
of European economies is largely due to the single currency; or that the
interests of the UK are diverging from those of all our EU allies. And I am
baffled by his assertion that the aim and destination of the EU has from the
start been clear to all with eyes to see, but that he was right to vote for
membership in 1975.

So when Lord Lawson suddenly announces "So the case for exit is clear" I wonder
at the presumption. He's a cleverer man than me, but must be cleverer by far if
he can reconcile (as I cannot) the assertion that leaving the EU does not
seriously threaten our European trade with the assertion that leaving "the warm
embrace" of the single market will jolt British exporters into finding new
markets.

Shock therapy? Or no shock? It cannot be both. Or perhaps he thinks it will just
be a little shock - a sneak pinch to British business's bottom, as it were.
Lucky, even in a former Chancellor, to be able to calibrate future shock with
such precision.

Mr Portillo, meanwhile, writes that he doesn't believe the referendum is going
to happen. Drawing together the threads of his argument I have to conclude he
would vote "no" in a referendum that isn't going to happen, promised by a Prime
Minister whose disposition to honour promises remains an open question, and who
isn't anyway going to get the chance to honour this one, and never expected to,
whatever he says.

Two impressions survive the conflicting verbal gusts: first, that Mr Portillo
doesn't like the EU. Second, that he doesn't like the Prime Minister. The first
we already knew. The second we certainly know now. I think highly of Michael and
so raise no more than a quizzical eyebrow at the capricious impugning by a Privy
Counsellor and former Tory Cabinet minister of a Tory Prime Minister's good
faith. Mr Cameron has promised a referendum if re-elected and given every
impression he is serious about being re-elected. I' ll take him at his word.

And what, anyway, has changed since Mr Cameron's speech setting out these
referendum plans, a speech that Eurosceptics applauded at the time? Lord Lawson
quotes with approval that stupid remark by J. M. Keynes: "when the facts change
I change my mind", as if anyone wouldn't; the remark is beloved of
mind-changers. But in the absence of new facts these new attacks perplex me. The
facts have not changed. The wind has changed, and Lord Lawson and Mr Portillo
have sniffed it. Their behaviour is just a little bit questionable in men of
their distinction and age.

For Britain to walk out of the EU at a critical time in the history of the West
will be - if we do it - a huge leap for us to take, the biggest in my lifetime,
and a massive and perhaps fatal blow to the EU. It yet may come to that. In or
out? Both futures are possible, and for people like me the choice will be very,
very difficult. Millions of British citizens share my anxiety. We know that
there will be powerful arguments both ways, we feel the force of all the
arguments and we expect the decision to be agonising.

In or out? There'll be a lot more shaking it all about before some of us will
decide. I am still making up my mind. In doing so I shall pay the most attention
to men and women who do not tell themselves, or me, that the answer is obvious
or easy.

Shock or no shock? Or just a sneak pinch to business's bottom?

To walk out of the EU will be a huge leap: the biggest in my lifetime

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Talking more loudly than persuasively never serves European
understanding
PA/BBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

David Cameron could vote [...]

BYLINE: Billy Kenber

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 85 words


David Cameron could vote in favour of an amendment criticising his own Queen's
Speech for failing to include an EU referendum Bill (Billy Kenber writes).

Tory backbenchers want to force a Commons vote in protest at the Prime
Minister's failure to table legislation to strengthen his pledge to hold an EU
membership poll in 2017.

Mr Cameron's spokesman said yesterday that he was "relaxed" about the move and
refused to rule out the possibility that he might back the amendment, which he
would "carefully consider".

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Raised voices do not convince me on Europe;
It is hard to share the certainties of either side in the in-out argument. We
don't-knows deserve better

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1169 words


The spotlight was literally upon me. I was on the stage in a huge marquee on a
cliff's edge in a gale, speaking at the Fowey Festival of Words and Music in
Cornwall two days ago. Questions from the floor had moved to the issue of a
referendum on EU membership. "How would I vote?" someone asked. In? Or out?
"Shake it all about" was not an option.

There can be few more hapless creatures than an opinion writer without an
opinion. He has three options: (1) silence (2) honesty or (3) tossing a coin,
then working himself into a state of synthetic certitude. Silence seems
cowardly. Synthetic certitude - "strong opinions, weakly held" - are the
columnist's, the barrister's and the saloon-bar bore's besetting sin.

Which leaves honesty. And the honest answer is that I do not know. I flap
wretchedly in the breeze. Such uncertainty should be declared: not because this
columnist's indecision is interesting in itself, but because - if I'm right -
there are more people in Britain who share my frame of mind than the confident
minorities on both sides begin to imagine.

The inquiring student of modern politics spends so much time staring at
pollsters' pie charts in distinctive primary colours that we slip into the
supposition that when it comes to opinions, our population is composed, as a pie
chart is, of brightly coloured slices. But it might be closer to the truth to
remark that it is not the population as a whole that resembles a multisliced pie
chart, but each individual within it. The colourful pie sits within the
citizen's own breast, each of us being, to some degree, a microcosmic picture of
conflicting current opinions.

We're all capable of believing several contradictory things before breakfast;
but some of our opinions are held more strongly, or entertained more often, or
admitted to more readily, than others. From this internal tussle it is the
opinion that has the upper hand at the time of asking that we will offer
pollsters as our own; but that does not mean that, beneath the surface, there's
no wrestling going on.

I am not ashamed to be the reflection I believe I am, of the hesitation and
internal struggle of millions. And though our self-contradictions defy logic,
they elevate us above those who think that whether Britain stays or leaves could
possibly be a no-brainer. I'm still fuming at an MP friend's remark that David
Cameron's choice here is between acting in the national interest, or against it.
As if it isn't possible for intelligent patriots to differ. What an idiotic
glass through which to see our politics.

The airy certainties of both sides' spear carriers are breathtaking. Nick Clegg
thinks that he knows, and can announce, the number of jobs (conveniently rounded
to the nearest million) that would be lost if Britain left the EU. Well, if
apologists for membership think they can reduce the argument to spraying out
spurious statistics and bloodcurdling threats, and waffling about peace across
the continent, then the Europhile stockade is no place for me.

Repelled by smug Europhile certainties, I turn the other way. I read Nigel
Lawson and Michael Portillo in The Times this week and run straight into
spurious certainties of another sort. From Lord Lawson's column one expects
arguments, but encounters mainly assertions. Lord Lawson may be right that Mr
Cameron's renegotiation of our terms of membership (if it happens) will prove
"inconsequential" - many of us share doubts about what's achievable - but if
what the PM brings home looks negligible, we can vote, if we wish, to reject it.
Nor is it obvious - as Lord Lawson baldly states - that the "underperformance"
of European economies is largely due to the single currency; or that the
interests of the UK are diverging from those of all our EU allies. And I am
baffled by his assertion that the aim and destination of the EU has from the
start been clear to all with eyes to see, but that he was right to vote for
membership in 1975.

So when Lord Lawson suddenly announces "So the case for exit is clear" I wonder
at the presumption. He's a cleverer man than me, but must be cleverer by far if
he can reconcile (as I cannot) the assertion that leaving the EU does not
seriously threaten our European trade with the assertion that leaving "the warm
embrace" of the single market will jolt British exporters into finding new
markets.

Shock therapy? Or no shock? It cannot be both. Or perhaps he thinks it will just
be a little shock - a sneak pinch to British business's bottom, as it were.
Lucky, even in a former Chancellor, to be able to calibrate future shock with
such precision.

Mr Portillo, meanwhile, writes that he doesn't believe the referendum is going
to happen. Drawing together the threads of his argument I have to conclude he
would vote "no" in a referendum that isn't going to happen, promised by a Prime
Minister whose disposition to honour promises remains an open question, and who
isn't anyway going to get the chance to honour this one, and never expected to,
whatever he says.

Two impressions survive the conflicting verbal gusts: first, that Mr Portillo
doesn't like the EU. Second, that he doesn't like the Prime Minister. The first
we already knew. The second we certainly know now. I think highly of Michael and
so raise no more than a quizzical eyebrow at the capricious impugning by a Privy
Counsellor and former Tory Cabinet minister of a Tory Prime Minister's good
faith. Mr Cameron has promised a referendum if re-elected and given every
impression he is serious about being re-elected. I' ll take him at his word.

And what, anyway, has changed since Mr Cameron's speech setting out these
referendum plans, a speech that Eurosceptics applauded at the time? Lord Lawson
quotes with approval that stupid remark by J. M. Keynes: "when the facts change
I change my mind", as if anyone wouldn't; the remark is beloved of
mind-changers. But in the absence of new facts these new attacks perplex me. The
facts have not changed. The wind has changed, and Lord Lawson and Mr Portillo
have sniffed it. Their behaviour is just a little bit questionable in men of
their distinction and age.

For Britain to walk out of the EU at a critical time in the history of the West
will be - if we do it - a huge leap for us to take, the biggest in my lifetime,
and a massive and perhaps fatal blow to the EU. It yet may come to that. In or
out? Both futures are possible, and for people like me the choice will be very,
very difficult. Millions of British citizens share my anxiety. We know that
there will be powerful arguments both ways, we feel the force of all the
arguments and we expect the decision to be agonising.

In or out? There'll be a lot more shaking it all about before some of us will
decide. I am still making up my mind. In doing so I shall pay the most attention
to men and women who do not tell themselves, or me, that the answer is obvious
or easy.

Shock or no shock? Or just a sneak pinch to business's bottom?

To walk out of the EU will be a huge leap: the biggest in my lifetime

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Talking more loudly than persuasively never serves European
understanding
PA/BBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

David Cameron could vote [...]

BYLINE: Billy Kenber

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 85 words


? David Cameron could vote in favour of an amendment criticising his own Queen's
Speech for failing to include an EU referendum Bill (Billy Kenber writes).

Tory backbenchers want to force a Commons vote in protest at the Prime
Minister's failure to table legislation to strengthen his pledge to hold an EU
membership poll in 2017.

Mr Cameron's spokesman said yesterday that he was "relaxed" about the move and
refused to rule out the possibility that he might back the amendment, which he
would "carefully consider".

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron gives ground as Lamont joins EU doubters;
Tory ministers may be allowed to join rebels

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 709 words


David Cameron may allow Tory ministers to vote against the Queen's Speech in an
extraordinary sign of the party pressure he is feeling over Europe.

The Prime Minister scolded "pessimists" yesterday who doubted his ability to
renegotiate big changes to Britain's relationship with Brussels. But amid
widespread internal unhappiness with his handling of the European issue, Downing
Street felt forced to say that Mr Cameron was "relaxed" about a rebel amendment
laid yesterday by Tory MPs. Indeed, No 10 is so relaxed about the issue that it
may allow ministers to join the "rebellion". The amendment laments the absence
in the Government's legislative agenda for the coming year of any Bill
guaranteeing Mr Cameron's promise of a 2017 in-out European Union referendum.

No 10 had never considered including such a measure, despite it being supported
by more than 100 Tory MPs.

However, Mr Cameron is now shifting ground, a sign of how much last week's UKIP
local election advances as well as Lord Lawson's call for Britain to quit the EU
has shaken the Tory Party. Yesterday, Lord Lamont became the latest Tory grandee
to advocate the merits of Britain quitting the EU.

The former Chancellor said that the economic benefits of EU membership were
"vastly overstated" and that Britain could survive after leaving.

Well placed sources indicated that all Tories would be free to support the
amendment - which has been tabled by the MPs John Baron and Peter Bone - if and
when it is called next week. It sets up the the extraordinary prospect of the
governing party voting against its own legislative agenda.

Senior Tories defended such a move. "Clearly, the Conservative Party has a
policy that we want a referendum on the EU," said senior sources.

Mr Cameron has blamed Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats for his inability to
introduce such a Bill, even though before last week's county council elections
Downing Street had dismissed the idea out of hand. "The amendment reflects the
Conservative position," said the sources.

The vote would be non-binding. But it could become the first of several. After
months trying to fend off such a vote, such is the pressure from Tory MPs
concerned by the rise of UKIP that Downing Street now sees a virtue in trying to
differentiate the party's support of an EU referendum in the next parliament
from one that the Liberal Democrats and Labour are opposed to.

Liberal Democrats were aghast at the Tory manoeuvre. "I can confirm that the
Liberal Democrats will be supporting the Queen's Speech," said a party
spokesman.

The Prime Minister - addressing a conference of business leaders in London -
insisted that a meaningful negotiation with Europe was "deliverable".

It was his first swipe at Lord Lawson, whose article in The Times this week said
that the Prime Minister's strategy would prove inconsequential.

Mr Cameron said his belief in himself to secure a "new deal" with the EU was
"the optimistic approach". He said: "It's absolutely achievable and
deliverable."

He added that Britain and the global economy was in a "sink or swim moment" and
he was determined Britain that would be one of the success stories.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said that Britain must make clear it was
prepared to leave the EU in order to secure what it wanted from Brussels. Asked
whether leaving the EU would be fatal, he replied: "Absolutely not fatal, no.
And to talk of losing three million jobs is complete nonsense.

And if we're honest, democratically it would be a shot in the arm because people
would suddenly feel yes, we're running our own destiny again."

Speaking to ITV News, Mr Johnson added: "Look this thing isn't working for any
of us ... the eurozone is becoming a zone of misery. We need a new approach to
the EU economy generally." A Liberal Democrat spokesman, asked about Tory voting
intentions next week, said: "Coalitions can mean strange times. We can see the
political pressures that lead to this kind of situation happening.

"But from a Lib Dem perspective, we think it would be in the Government's
interests if we spent more time talking about the good things in the Queen's
Speech, like pensions and social care that are going to help people in their
real lives, rather than that all being drowned out by Europe."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Any vote on leaving the EU would be non-binding

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron gives ground as Lamont joins EU doubters;
Tory ministers may be allowed to join rebels

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 709 words


David Cameron may allow Tory ministers to vote against the Queen's Speech in an
extraordinary sign of the party pressure he is feeling over Europe.

The Prime Minister scolded "pessimists" yesterday who doubted his ability to
renegotiate big changes to Britain's relationship with Brussels. But amid
widespread internal unhappiness with his handling of the European issue, Downing
Street felt forced to say that Mr Cameron was "relaxed" about a rebel amendment
laid yesterday by Tory MPs. Indeed, No 10 is so relaxed about the issue that it
may allow ministers to join the "rebellion". The amendment laments the absence
in the Government's legislative agenda for the coming year of any Bill
guaranteeing Mr Cameron's promise of a 2017 in-out European Union referendum.

No 10 had never considered including such a measure, despite it being supported
by more than 100 Tory MPs.

However, Mr Cameron is now shifting ground, a sign of how much last week's UKIP
local election advances as well as Lord Lawson's call for Britain to quit the EU
has shaken the Tory Party. Yesterday, Lord Lamont became the latest Tory grandee
to advocate the merits of Britain quitting the EU.

The former Chancellor said that the economic benefits of EU membership were
"vastly overstated" and that Britain could survive after leaving.

Well placed sources indicated that all Tories would be free to support the
amendment - which has been tabled by the MPs John Baron and Peter Bone - if and
when it is called next week. It sets up the the extraordinary prospect of the
governing party voting against its own legislative agenda.

Senior Tories defended such a move. "Clearly, the Conservative Party has a
policy that we want a referendum on the EU," said senior sources.

Mr Cameron has blamed Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats for his inability to
introduce such a Bill, even though before last week's county council elections
Downing Street had dismissed the idea out of hand. "The amendment reflects the
Conservative position," said the sources.

The vote would be non-binding. But it could become the first of several. After
months trying to fend off such a vote, such is the pressure from Tory MPs
concerned by the rise of UKIP that Downing Street now sees a virtue in trying to
differentiate the party's support of an EU referendum in the next parliament
from one that the Liberal Democrats and Labour are opposed to.

Liberal Democrats were aghast at the Tory manoeuvre. "I can confirm that the
Liberal Democrats will be supporting the Queen's Speech," said a party
spokesman.

The Prime Minister - addressing a conference of business leaders in London -
insisted that a meaningful negotiation with Europe was "deliverable".

It was his first swipe at Lord Lawson, whose article in The Times this week said
that the Prime Minister's strategy would prove inconsequential.

Mr Cameron said his belief in himself to secure a "new deal" with the EU was
"the optimistic approach". He said: "It's absolutely achievable and
deliverable."

He added that Britain and the global economy was in a "sink or swim moment" and
he was determined Britain that would be one of the success stories.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said that Britain must make clear it was
prepared to leave the EU in order to secure what it wanted from Brussels. Asked
whether leaving the EU would be fatal, he replied: "Absolutely not fatal, no.
And to talk of losing three million jobs is complete nonsense.

And if we're honest, democratically it would be a shot in the arm because people
would suddenly feel yes, we're running our own destiny again."

Speaking to ITV News, Mr Johnson added: "Look this thing isn't working for any
of us ... the eurozone is becoming a zone of misery. We need a new approach to
the EU economy generally." A Liberal Democrat spokesman, asked about Tory voting
intentions next week, said: "Coalitions can mean strange times. We can see the
political pressures that lead to this kind of situation happening.

"But from a Lib Dem perspective, we think it would be in the Government's
interests if we spent more time talking about the good things in the Queen's
Speech, like pensions and social care that are going to help people in their
real lives, rather than that all being drowned out by Europe."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Any vote on leaving the EU would be non-binding

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron gives ground as Lamont joins EU doubters;
Tory ministers may be allowed to join rebels

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 726 words


David Cameron may allow Tory ministers to vote against the Queen's Speech in an
extraordinary sign of the party pressure he is feeling over Europe.

The Prime Minister scolded "pessimists" yesterday who doubted his ability to
renegotiate big changes to Britain's relationship with Brussels.

But amid widespread unhappiness with his handling of the European issue, Downing
Street felt forced to say that Mr Cameron was "relaxed" about a rebel amendment
laid down yesterday by Tory MPs. Indeed, No 10 is so relaxed about the issue
that it may allow ministers to join the "rebellion".

The amendment laments the absence in the Government's legislative agenda of any
Bill guaranteeing Mr Cameron's promise of a 2017 in-out European Union
referendum. No 10 had never considered including such a measure, despite it
being supported by more than 100 Tory MPs.

Mr Cameron is now shifting ground, a sign of how much last week's UKIP local
election advances, as well as Lord Lawson of Blaby's call for Britain to quit
the EU, has shaken the party. Yesterday, Lord Lamont of Lerwick became the
latest Tory grandee to advocate quitting the EU.

Well-placed sources indicated that all Tories would be free to support the
amendment, which has been tabled by the MPs John Baron and Peter Bone, if and
when it is called next week. It sets up the extraordinary prospect of the
governing party voting against its own legislative agenda, although the vote
would be non-binding. Senior Tories defended the move. "The Conservative Party
has a policy that we want a referendum on the EU," said senior sources. Mr
Cameron has blamed Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats for his inability to
introduce a referendum Bill, even though before last week's county council
elections Downing Street had dismissed the idea out of hand. "The amendment
reflects the Conservative position," said the sources.

Downing Street now sees a virtue in trying to differentiate the party's support
of an EU referendum in the next parliament from the position of the Liberal
Democrats and Labour.

Liberal Democrats were aghast at the Tory manoeuvre. "I can confirm that the
Liberal Democrats will be supporting the Queen's Speech," said a party
spokesman.

The Prime Minister - addressing a conference of business leaders in London -
insisted that a meaningful negotiation with Europe was "deliverable".

It was his first swipe at Lord Lawson, whose article in The Times this week said
that the Prime Minister's strategy would prove inconsequential. Mr Cameron said
his belief in himself to secure a "new deal" with the EU was "the optimistic
approach". He said: "It's absolutely achievable and deliverable."

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said that Britain must make clear it was
prepared to leave the EU in order to secure what it wanted from Brussels. Asked
whether leaving the EU would be fatal, he said: "Absolutely not fatal, no. And
to talk of losing three million jobs is complete nonsense. And if we're honest,
democratically it would be a shot in the arm because people would suddenly feel
yes, we're running our own destiny again."

A Liberal Democrat spokesman, asked about Tory voting intentions next week,
said: "Coalitions can mean strange times ... but from a Lib Dem perspective, we
think it would be in the Government's interests if we spent more time talking
about the good things in the Queen's Speech, like pensions and social care that
are going to help people in their real lives, rather than that all being drowned
out by Europe."

Last night Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former foreign secretary, said that Lord
Lawson had thrown the equivalent of a "hand grenade into a small building" by
calling for Britain to leave the EU.

Mr Rifkind accused the former chancellor of abandoning Margaret Thatcher's
legacy and said in an interview with The Guardian that Lord Lawson wanted to
place Britain in a "humiliating" position in which it would be subject to EU
rules with no say in them.

Mr Johnson is set to trump the Prime Minister by securing a visit to China. The
Chinese Government is refusing to invite senior British government figures after
Mr Cameron met the Dalai Lama last year. Mr Johnson said that he would be taking
a delegation of business leaders to China in October. Asked whether the Prime
Minister would be accompanying them, Mr Johnson said: "Not unless he's hiding in
the plane hold."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Any vote on leaving the EU would be non-binding

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

We don't share Europe's vision. So I want out;
Cameron's promise of renegotiation is just an insincere ploy. Let's hope the
voters have more guts than their leaders

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1065 words


Nigel Lawson says that he would vote in a referendum for Britain to leave the
European Union. So would I. But I am much less confident than he is that we will
get the opportunity to express our will. A referendum would occur if the
Conservatives won a majority at the next election and kept their promise. They
didn't win the last one and it is extremely rare for governing parties to
improve their share of the vote, even when their opponents are as weakly led as
Labour and the Liberal Democrats are now.

I don't agree with Lord Lawson that Labour will feel obliged to pledge a
referendum in its manifesto. We all know that David Cameron was forced to
promise one because of pressures within his party brought on by UKIP's strong
poll performance. Ed Miliband's party is much less Eurosceptic than the Tories
and loses far fewer votes to UKIP. Mr Miliband would be foolish to promise a
referendum, which might turn out badly, costing him his authority mid-term in
his first period of office and saddling him with having to withdraw from the EU,
a policy that he would neither propose nor support.

I have not been impressed by Mr Cameron's pledge. Given his party's electoral
prospects I doubt if he expects to have to deliver on it. But in any case, he
seems to have decided already that Britain should stay in. As Lord Lawson says,
it is to be a repeat of Harold Wilson's 1975 manoeuvre: a minimal renegotiation
with our EU partners, and then a recommendation to us the public to vote to
remain members.

It's interesting that while the Conservative Party has changed a lot, the change
makes no difference. When I was in government, senior ministers such as Michael
Heseltine, Ken Clarke and Geoffrey Howe were deeply committed to European
integration. Now the senior leadership is hostile to the idea. Yet even today's
senior ministers cannot contemplate withdrawal. They whinge about Europe but
don't have the self-confidence to pull out. Their referendum strategy is based
on the belief that the British public is the same: happy to harrumph about the
EU, but likely to shy from the abyss if given the vote. The default position of
the political class is defeatism: the belief that Britain could not survive
outside the union; and the political class assumes that the public shares its
defeatism.

It's almost enough to say that the tactic is borrowed from Wilson to appreciate
that it is cynical and lacks conviction. To put it mildly, you could not imagine
Margaret Thatcher approaching the issue in such an insincere and political way.

If senior Conservatives were proved right about the British electorate, and we
were cowed into voting for continued EU membership, the British Establishment
would claim that the issue was settled for all time. Over the following few
years, defeatism would run its full course and the political class would deliver
Britain into the euro.

So the referendum, were it to occur, would not be simply about withdrawing from
the EU or going on as we are. It would really be about pulling out, or in due
course entering political union.

That is why I would vote "no" and fervently hope that the British have more guts
than those who govern us, and more than those who govern us think we have.

The euro is a disaster. It has created hardship, unemployment and division on a
dangerous scale. It is the result of an ideology; and the ideologues who pursue
the goal of union do not count the cost in human misery. Why should they, since
it is paid by others? Europe's political elite is so self-satisfied with its
self-proclaimed virtue in uniting Europe that it never doubts itself nor
tolerates those who point out the damage that it does and its sheer
incompetence. We are on a one-way ratchet to a federal state of Europe, and any
populace that votes against the onward march is simply told to vote again.

The eurozone will be intellectually absorbed by its currency for 20 years.
Either the euro will gradually collapse or member states will enter economic and
political union. Either way, Britain should be nowhere near, and as the eurozone
expends its energy on integration, it will slip further behind the competition
from outside Europe.

Integration is a word easily said. Its implementation would be vastly more
difficult than creating the single currency, which the EU has so manifestly
botched. The task can be compared with Germany's adoption of a single mark after
unification. It required East Germans to uproot to West Germany in search of
work, while West Germans had to subsidise the East, holding back their living
standards. But at least they were all German, they established shared German
institutions and believed in a single Germany.

In the case of the eurozone it is not two countries that must integrate but
seventeen. There are no convincing democratic institutions at European level.
There is no clear sense of Europeanness that bears comparison to Germany's sense
of shared destiny. Southern Europeans will need to swarm north in search of
jobs. Northern taxpayers will need to subsidise their southern neighbours.
Whether Europe's peoples will bear the price, as their ideologue masters assume,
remains to be seen. How - even whether - democracy will survive the process is
an open question.

The UK is unhappy in the EU. We do not share its vision, partly because we are
not visionary by temperament. We are not so easily convinced that the EU is a
necessary response to the horrors of the Second World War because our experience
of that war was different. We did not endure revolution, dictatorship or
invasion. Other countries may look to institutions at the European level because
they doubt the durability of national institutions that perished in that
conflict. We do not, because ours survived.

The British were fooled into believing that they were joining a European club.
We understand clubs: they have enduring rules. The EU is not a club but a
process, so the rules constantly change. As they do we resist as best we can, or
cling to exemptions, or give way out of good manners. But our unhappiness
mounts.

It's disingenuous to suggest that this fundamental mismatch can be resolved by a
little renegotiation. It can be settled only when Britain departs the Union or
is absorbed. I have no doubt where my vote would go.

Michael Portillo was a Conservative Cabinet Minister, 1992-97

Defeatism is the default position of the political class

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The euro is a disaster. It has created hardship, unemployment and
division
LOUISA GOULIAMAKI / AFP / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UKIP and the reasons for its new popularity;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 597 words


Sir, While musing on the rise of UKIP Rachel Sylvester warns of the
inadvisability of a nostalgia for a bygone era (Opinion, May 7), and I agree.
But nostalgia for a political administration that plans ahead and which assumes
responsibility for and to the electorate is entirely justified.

The issues of national importance that are unresolved are seen by many as being
quite unacceptable. The era when affairs of state could be resolved by
procrastination and guile was surely past by the end of the 16th century when
issues were simpler, time more plentiful and (some) minds sharper.

Now there is a widespread perception of a malfunctioning state run by a flaccid
administration that does not trust the electorate. Small wonder that UKIP has
sprung forward and appears to have been warmly received. If Mr Cameron were to
sharply prune his to-do list to what is really important for the safety and
prosperity of the country he would find that UKIP had mysteriously faded away.
nick bland Eastbourne, E Sussex Sir, As the founder of the Anti-Federalist
League (later UKIP), I welcome Lord Lawson's belated conversion to the cause of
British independence (Opinion, May 7). As he clearly demonstrates, the Prime
Minister's expedient of renegotiating our EU membership terms is a non-starter.
Indeed, it is downright embarrassing and pathetic. The Tories will have to be as
ruthless with Cameron as they were with Thatcher if they mean to win the next
election. If he will not legislate for an immediate in-out referendum on the EU,
he must be replaced by someone who will.

alan sked Professor of International History, LSE Sir, UKIP did so well in the
recent local elections largely because all the parties have broken their
promises of a referendum on the EU. Throughout 2004 and 2005 Tony Blair promised
us a referendum on the EU Constitution. On May 13, 2005, he said, "Even if the
French voted no, we would have a referendum. This is a government promise." Just
three weeks later, the French voted no - and Blair broke that promise.

In 2007 David Cameron gave us his "cast-iron guarantee" of a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty - but we had no referendum. Cameron now promises us a referendum -
after the next election, when he may well be out of office.

will podmore London E12 Sir, UKIP has picked up some county council seats and
become a home for the disillusioned and angry, but we have heard nothing
concrete about its policies on, for example, running schools or social services.
UKIP's attendance in the European Parliament is woeful. We also want assurances
that they will turn up to council meetings and involve themselves in local
decisions. One MEP has just defected to the Conservatives, another was struck
off, and one went independent. You wonder how many of those recently elected
UKIP councillors will stay the course.

richard grant Burley, Hants Sir, UKIP cites immigration as a key issue facing
Britain. There are few unemployed immigrants. They find employment rather
rapidly or start their own business. They see an opportunity and that is why
they emigrate. It follows, does it not, that those jobs and business
opportunities existed before the immigrant arrived in the UK? Perhaps those who
vote UKIP should ask why Britons didn't exploit those opportunities.

Immigration will always continue.

UK companies want immigration. It keeps the UK competitive. And should Mr Farage
ever come to power he would be unable to fulfil his electoral promise as he
would be answerable to those employers, who pay rather large amounts in tax.
It's simple economics.

sanjiv shah London W1

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage, UKIP leader: his party is exploiting the Government's
weaknesses
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We don't share Europe's vision. So I want out;
Cameron's promise of renegotiation is just an insincere ploy. Let's hope the
voters have more guts than their leaders

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1065 words


Nigel Lawson says that he would vote in a referendum for Britain to leave the
European Union. So would I. But I am much less confident than he is that we will
get the opportunity to express our will. A referendum would occur if the
Conservatives won a majority at the next election and kept their promise. They
didn't win the last one and it is extremely rare for governing parties to
improve their share of the vote, even when their opponents are as weakly led as
Labour and the Liberal Democrats are now.

I don't agree with Lord Lawson that Labour will feel obliged to pledge a
referendum in its manifesto. We all know that David Cameron was forced to
promise one because of pressures within his party brought on by UKIP's strong
poll performance. Ed Miliband's party is much less Eurosceptic than the Tories
and loses far fewer votes to UKIP. Mr Miliband would be foolish to promise a
referendum, which might turn out badly, costing him his authority mid-term in
his first period of office and saddling him with having to withdraw from the EU,
a policy that he would neither propose nor support.

I have not been impressed by Mr Cameron's pledge. Given his party's electoral
prospects I doubt if he expects to have to deliver on it. But in any case, he
seems to have decided already that Britain should stay in. As Lord Lawson says,
it is to be a repeat of Harold Wilson's 1975 manoeuvre: a minimal renegotiation
with our EU partners, and then a recommendation to us the public to vote to
remain members.

It's interesting that while the Conservative Party has changed a lot, the change
makes no difference. When I was in government, senior ministers such as Michael
Heseltine, Ken Clarke and Geoffrey Howe were deeply committed to European
integration. Now the senior leadership is hostile to the idea. Yet even today's
senior ministers cannot contemplate withdrawal. They whinge about Europe but
don't have the self-confidence to pull out. Their referendum strategy is based
on the belief that the British public is the same: happy to harrumph about the
EU, but likely to shy from the abyss if given the vote. The default position of
the political class is defeatism: the belief that Britain could not survive
outside the union; and the political class assumes that the public shares its
defeatism.

It's almost enough to say that the tactic is borrowed from Wilson to appreciate
that it is cynical and lacks conviction. To put it mildly, you could not imagine
Margaret Thatcher approaching the issue in such an insincere and political way.

If senior Conservatives were proved right about the British electorate, and we
were cowed into voting for continued EU membership, the British Establishment
would claim that the issue was settled for all time. Over the following few
years, defeatism would run its full course and the political class would deliver
Britain into the euro.

So the referendum, were it to occur, would not be simply about withdrawing from
the EU or going on as we are. It would really be about pulling out, or in due
course entering political union.

That is why I would vote "no" and fervently hope that the British have more guts
than those who govern us, and more than those who govern us think we have.

The euro is a disaster. It has created hardship, unemployment and division on a
dangerous scale. It is the result of an ideology; and the ideologues who pursue
the goal of union do not count the cost in human misery. Why should they, since
it is paid by others? Europe's political elite is so self-satisfied with its
self-proclaimed virtue in uniting Europe that it never doubts itself nor
tolerates those who point out the damage that it does and its sheer
incompetence. We are on a one-way ratchet to a federal state of Europe, and any
populace that votes against the onward march is simply told to vote again.

The eurozone will be intellectually absorbed by its currency for 20 years.
Either the euro will gradually collapse or member states will enter economic and
political union. Either way, Britain should be nowhere near, and as the eurozone
expends its energy on integration, it will slip further behind the competition
from outside Europe.

Integration is a word easily said. Its implementation would be vastly more
difficult than creating the single currency, which the EU has so manifestly
botched. The task can be compared with Germany's adoption of a single mark after
unification. It required East Germans to uproot to West Germany in search of
work, while West Germans had to subsidise the East, holding back their living
standards. But at least they were all German, they established shared German
institutions and believed in a single Germany.

In the case of the eurozone it is not two countries that must integrate but
seventeen. There are no convincing democratic institutions at European level.
There is no clear sense of Europeanness that bears comparison to Germany's sense
of shared destiny. Southern Europeans will need to swarm north in search of
jobs. Northern taxpayers will need to subsidise their southern neighbours.
Whether Europe's peoples will bear the price, as their ideologue masters assume,
remains to be seen. How - even whether - democracy will survive the process is
an open question.

The UK is unhappy in the EU. We do not share its vision, partly because we are
not visionary by temperament. We are not so easily convinced that the EU is a
necessary response to the horrors of the Second World War because our experience
of that war was different. We did not endure revolution, dictatorship or
invasion. Other countries may look to institutions at the European level because
they doubt the durability of national institutions that perished in that
conflict. We do not, because ours survived.

The British were fooled into believing that they were joining a European club.
We understand clubs: they have enduring rules. The EU is not a club but a
process, so the rules constantly change. As they do we resist as best we can, or
cling to exemptions, or give way out of good manners. But our unhappiness
mounts.

It's disingenuous to suggest that this fundamental mismatch can be resolved by a
little renegotiation. It can be settled only when Britain departs the Union or
is absorbed. I have no doubt where my vote would go.

Michael Portillo was a Conservative Cabinet Minister, 1992-97

Defeatism is the default position of the political class

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The euro is a disaster. It has created hardship, unemployment and
division
LOUISA GOULIAMAKI / AFP / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP and the reasons for its new popularity;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 597 words


Sir, While musing on the rise of UKIP Rachel Sylvester warns of the
inadvisability of a nostalgia for a bygone era (Opinion, May 7), and I agree.
But nostalgia for a political administration that plans ahead and which assumes
responsibility for and to the electorate is entirely justified.

The issues of national importance that are unresolved are seen by many as being
quite unacceptable. The era when affairs of state could be resolved by
procrastination and guile was surely past by the end of the 16th century when
issues were simpler, time more plentiful and (some) minds sharper.

Now there is a widespread perception of a malfunctioning state run by a flaccid
administration that does not trust the electorate. Small wonder that UKIP has
sprung forward and appears to have been warmly received. If Mr Cameron were to
sharply prune his to-do list to what is really important for the safety and
prosperity of the country he would find that UKIP had mysteriously faded away.
nick bland Eastbourne, E Sussex Sir, As the founder of the Anti-Federalist
League (later UKIP), I welcome Lord Lawson's belated conversion to the cause of
British independence (Opinion, May 7). As he clearly demonstrates, the Prime
Minister's expedient of renegotiating our EU membership terms is a non-starter.
Indeed, it is downright embarrassing and pathetic. The Tories will have to be as
ruthless with Cameron as they were with Thatcher if they mean to win the next
election. If he will not legislate for an immediate in-out referendum on the EU,
he must be replaced by someone who will.

alan sked Professor of International History, LSE Sir, UKIP did so well in the
recent local elections largely because all the parties have broken their
promises of a referendum on the EU. Throughout 2004 and 2005 Tony Blair promised
us a referendum on the EU Constitution. On May 13, 2005, he said, "Even if the
French voted no, we would have a referendum. This is a government promise." Just
three weeks later, the French voted no - and Blair broke that promise.

In 2007 David Cameron gave us his "cast-iron guarantee" of a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty - but we had no referendum. Cameron now promises us a referendum -
after the next election, when he may well be out of office.

will podmore London E12 Sir, UKIP has picked up some county council seats and
become a home for the disillusioned and angry, but we have heard nothing
concrete about its policies on, for example, running schools or social services.
UKIP's attendance in the European Parliament is woeful. We also want assurances
that they will turn up to council meetings and involve themselves in local
decisions. One MEP has just defected to the Conservatives, another was struck
off, and one went independent. You wonder how many of those recently elected
UKIP councillors will stay the course.

richard grant Burley, Hants Sir, UKIP cites immigration as a key issue facing
Britain. There are few unemployed immigrants. They find employment rather
rapidly or start their own business. They see an opportunity and that is why
they emigrate. It follows, does it not, that those jobs and business
opportunities existed before the immigrant arrived in the UK? Perhaps those who
vote UKIP should ask why Britons didn't exploit those opportunities.

Immigration will always continue.

UK companies want immigration. It keeps the UK competitive. And should Mr Farage
ever come to power he would be unable to fulfil his electoral promise as he
would be answerable to those employers, who pay rather large amounts in tax.
It's simple economics.

sanjiv shah London W1

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage, UKIP leader: his party is exploiting the Government's
weaknesses
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Landlords and GPs rebel against attempt to turn them into 'border guards'

BYLINE: Billy Kenber; Laura Pitel; Deidre Hipwell; Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 645 words


David Cameron's attempt to tackle the UKIP threat with tough measures on
immigration was unravelling last night as private landlords and doctors rebelled
against moves to turn them into "de facto border guards".

After losing hundreds of seats in last week's local elections, the Prime
Minister put wide-ranging measures to restrict foreigners' access to rented
accommodation and health services at the heart of the Queen's Speech to woo
disaffected right-wing voters.

Experts warned, however, that the proposals were unworkable and doubts remain as
to whether key aspects of the Bill will be signed into law before restrictions
on Romanian and Bulgarian migrants are lifted on January 1. Speaking in the
Commons, Mr Cameron said his "centrepiece" immigration reforms would "back
aspiration and end the legacy of the last Government, where people could come
here and expect something for nothing".

But plans to regulate migrants' access to the NHS and require private landlords
to check the immigration status of tenants will not be introduced until the
autumn to allow for consultation.

The timing makes it unlikely that they will receive Royal Assent before
migration restrictions are lifted for hundreds of thousands of EU citizens.
Several other changes to immigrants' rights to legal aid, benefits and priority
housing will not need primary legislation.

The speech made clear that a new immigration Bill would "ensure that this
country attracts people who will contribute and deters those who will not".

It included a package of 17 new Bills, with the Government laying out plans to
cap social care costs, introduce a single-tier state pension and extend consumer
rights. The coalition will also introduce legislation to pave the way for a
high-speed rail line from London to Birmingham and to cut red-tape for small
businesses.

However, Labour MPs and some Tory backbenchers criticised it as "thin" after a
string of anticipated proposals were left out.

The dropped measures include plain packaging for cigarettes, a minimum price for
alcohol, enshrining overseas aid in law, creating a register of lobbyists, the
right to recall MPs and the so-called snooper's charter, which was vetoed by
Nick Clegg.

Tory backbenchers were also left disappointed by the lack of legislation to
guarantee a promised referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union in
2017.

Ed Miliband said the speech showed that the coalition Government had run out of
ideas as Mr Cameron struggled to control his party in the face of a growing
threat from UKIP and its leader Nigel Farage.

The Labour leader warned the Prime Minister that "you can't out-Farage Farage"
by moving to the right and said he was prepared to help Mr Cameron pass
legislation to introduce plain cigarette packaging, a register of lobbyists and
a Bill to increase media plurality.

The Immigration Bill set out yesterday will require private landlords to be
legally responsible for vetting tenants' rights to live in Britain, and will
regulate access to the NHS to "ensure temporary migrants make a contribution".
Millions of buy-to-let property owners will have to check prospective tenants'
immigration status or risk fines. However, the UK property industry warned that
it could be extremely difficult to implement, and described it as "political
posturing".

The British Property Federation (BPF) said: "There would be significant concern
in the landlord community if it was in effect being asked to police our borders.

Doctors and nurses also made it clear they did not want to act as a "border
agency". Clare Gerada, chairwoman of the Royal College of GPs, said doctors
should not be placed "in the invidious position of being the new border agency.
GPs have a duty of care to all people seeking healthcare, and should not be
expected to police access and turn people away when they are at their most
vulnerable," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "My Government will ban drums outside theatres..."
The Duke and Duchess of Cornwall attend the Queen's Speech for the first time
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD POHLE
GEOFF PUGH / WPA / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Now Portillo turns against Cameron on future of EU;
Portillo turns against Cameron on EU

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Kat Lay

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 599 words


Tory pressure on David Cameron over Europe intensified last night when Michael
Portillo and Boris Johnson both said Britain should be ready to quit the EU.

Mr Portillo, the former Cabinet minister, accused the Prime Minister of
resorting to a cynical referendum ploy that smacked of defeatism. He said that,
like Lord Lawson of Blaby, he would leave the EU today.

The Prime Minister's promised referendum was a manoeuvre that would lead to
"minimal renegotiation" and lacked conviction, he said, writing in The Times
today. "You cannot imagine Margaret Thatcher approaching the issue in such an
insincere and political way," he said.

Mr Johnson did not go as far as saying that he would quit the EU today, but said
it was "much less clear" that the UK would suffer by severing its ties with
Brussels. "The debate is of less existential importance," he said. Mr Johnson
favoured trying to renegotiate Britain's terms of membership, adding: "But we
should be prepared to leave if we cannot get what we want."

The comments came as Lord Lawson's call for Britain to leave the EU echoed
through a Tory parliamentary party fretting over the UKIP advances in last
week's local elections. The mood, which had been calm after a comparatively
uncontroversial Budget in March, improving poll numbers and a coming together
after the death of Lady Thatcher, has been shaken.

Lord Lawson's article in The Times on Tuesday, arguing that Mr Cameron's efforts
to renegotiate looser ties with Brussels were bound to be inconsequential, has
threatened to destabilise it further. One senior MP said they thought that the
number of Conservative colleagues who would vote to leave the EU immediately was
"between a third and a half". But on Europe, Mr Cameron has little room for
manoeuvre in Parliament, given that Nick Clegg has made clear he would block any
new government measures towards accelerating or underwriting the Prime Minster's
promise of a referendum in 2017.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said that the Government would not shift
ground to please Mr Farage.

"It can't be the approach of governing parties to give in to every vehicle of
protest every time a protest arises," he said. "We are implementing the
programme of the coalition Government in the national interest."

However, No 10 has signalled that Mr Cameron will back any Private Member's Bill
that would allow MPs to vote on enshrining in law his promised 2017 referendum.

Mr Portillo said that ministers were lagging behind the public over their
willingness to contemplate severing ties with Brussels. Without naming Mr
Cameron, he said: "They whinge about Europe but they don't have the
selfconfidence to pull out. The default position of the political class is
defeatism: they believe that Britain could not survive outside the Union."

Mr Johnson, speaking at the official opening of a new enterprise centre in North
London, said that the EU had changed much in the past ten years and Britain had
to think globally.

"The downside of pulling out is much less clear. The share of our exports going
outside Europe is growing. If you look at the growth economies of the world,
they are not in Europe, they are outside Europe. What I would say is that the
debate is of less existential importance.

"Given the choice, I would rather remain in the single market but only if we get
a decent renegotiation. If David can get some sensible changes to the way the EU
is run, and we minimise what is done, reduce some of the bureaucracy, that would
be fine.

"I am in favour of renegotiation, but we should be prepared to leave if we
cannot get what we want."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Landlords and GPs rebel against attempt to turn them into 'border guards'

BYLINE: Billy Kenber; Laura Pitel; Deidre Hipwell; Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 644 words


David Cameron's attempt to tackle the UKIP threat with tough measures on
immigration was unravelling last night as private landlords and doctors rebelled
against moves to turn them into "de facto border guards".

After losing hundreds of seats in last week's local elections, the Prime
Minister put wideranging measures to restrict foreigners' access to rented
accommodation and health services at the heart of the Queen's Speech to woo
disaffected right-wing voters.

Experts warned, however, that the proposals were unworkable and doubts remain as
to whether key aspects of the Bill will be signed into law before restrictions
on Romanian and Bulgarian migrants are lifted on January 1. Speaking in the
Commons, Mr Cameron said his "centrepiece" immigration reforms would "back
aspiration and end the legacy of the last Government, where people could come
here and expect something for nothing".

But plans to regulate migrants' access to the NHS and require private landlords
to check the immigration status of tenants will not be introduced until the
autumn to allow for consultation.

The timing makes it unlikely that they will receive Royal Assent before
migration restrictions are lifted for hundreds of thousands of EU citizens.
Several other changes to immigrants' rights to legal aid, benefits and priority
housing will not need primary legislation.

The speech made clear that a new immigration Bill would "ensure that this
country attracts people who will contribute and deters those who will not".

It included a package of 17 new Bills, with the Government laying out plans to
cap social care costs, introduce a single-tier state pension and extend consumer
rights. The coalition will also introduce legislation to pave the way for a
high-speed rail line from London to Birmingham and to cut red-tape for small
businesses.

However, Labour MPs and some Tory backbenchers criticised it as "thin" after a
string of anticipated proposals were left out.

The dropped measures include plain packaging for cigarettes, a minimum price for
alcohol, enshrining overseas aid in law, creating a register of lobbyists, the
right to recall MPs and the so-called snooper's charter, which was vetoed by
Nick Clegg.

Tory backbenchers were also left disappointed by the lack of legislation to
guarantee a promised referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union in
2017.

Ed Miliband said the speech showed that the coalition Government had run out of
ideas as Mr Cameron struggled to control his party in the face of a growing
threat from UKIP and its leader, Nigel Farage.

The Labour leader warned the Prime Minister that "you can't out-Farage Farage"
by moving to the right and said he was prepared to help Mr Cameron pass
legislation to introduce plain cigarette packaging, a register of lobbyists and
a Bill to increase media plurality.

The Immigration Bill set out yesterday will require private landlords to be
legally responsible for vetting tenants' rights to live in Britain, and will
regulate access to the NHS to "ensure temporary migrants make a contribution".
Millions of buy-to-let property owners will have to check prospective tenants'
immigration status or risk fines. However, the UK property industry warned that
it could be extremely difficult to implement, and described it as "political
posturing".

The British Property Federation said: "There would be significant concern in the
landlord community if it was in effect being asked to police our borders."

Doctors and nurses also made it clear they did not want to act as a "border
agency". Clare Gerada, chairwoman of the Royal College of GPs, said doctors
should not be placed "in the invidious position of being the new border agency.
GPs have a duty of care to all people seeking healthcare, and should not be
expected to police access and turn people away when they are at their most
vulnerable," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "My Government will ban drums outside theatres ..."
The Duke and Duchess of Cornwall attend the Queen's Speech for the first time
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD POHLE
GEOFF PUGH / WPA / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Landlords and GPs rebel against attempt to turn them into 'border guards'

BYLINE: Billy Kenber, Laura Pitel Deidre Hipwell, Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 645 words


David Cameron's attempt to tackle the UKIP threat with tough measures on
immigration was unravelling last night as private landlords and doctors rebelled
against moves to turn them into "de facto border guards".

After losing hundreds of seats in last week's local elections, the Prime
Minister put wide-ranging measures to restrict foreigners' access to rented
accommodation and health services at the heart of the Queen's Speech to woo
disaffected right-wing voters.

Experts warned, however, that the proposals were unworkable and doubts remain as
to whether key aspects of the Bill will be signed into law before restrictions
on Romanian and Bulgarian migrants are lifted on January 1. Speaking in the
Commons, Mr Cameron said his "centrepiece" immigration reforms would "back
aspiration and end the legacy of the last Government, where people could come
here and expect something for nothing".

But plans to regulate migrants' access to the NHS and require private landlords
to check the immigration status of tenants will not be introduced until the
autumn to allow for consultation.

The timing makes it unlikely that they will receive Royal Assent before
migration restrictions are lifted for hundreds of thousands of EU citizens.
Several other changes to immigrants' rights to legal aid, benefits and priority
housing will not need primary legislation.

The speech made clear that a new immigration Bill would "ensure that this
country attracts people who will contribute and deters those who will not".

It included a package of 17 new Bills, with the Government laying out plans to
cap social care costs, introduce a single-tier state pension and extend consumer
rights. The coalition will also introduce legislation to pave the way for a
high-speed rail line from London to Birmingham and to cut red-tape for small
businesses.

However, Labour MPs and some Tory backbenchers criticised it as "thin" after a
string of anticipated proposals were left out.

The dropped measures include plain packaging for cigarettes, a minimum price for
alcohol, enshrining overseas aid in law, creating a register of lobbyists, the
right to recall MPs and the so-called snooper's charter, which was vetoed by
Nick Clegg.

Tory backbenchers were also left disappointed by the lack of legislation to
guarantee a promised referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union in
2017.

Ed Miliband said the speech showed that the coalition Government had run out of
ideas as Mr Cameron struggled to control his party in the face of a growing
threat from UKIP and its leader Nigel Farage.

The Labour leader warned the Prime Minister that "you can't out-Farage Farage"
by moving to the right and said he was prepared to help Mr Cameron pass
legislation to introduce plain cigarette packaging, a register of lobbyists and
a Bill to increase media plurality.

The Immigration Bill set out yesterday will require private landlords to be
legally responsible for vetting tenants' rights to live in Britain, and will
regulate access to the NHS to "ensure temporary migrants make a contribution".
Millions of buy-to-let property owners will have to check prospective tenants'
immigration status or risk fines. However, the UK property industry warned that
it could be extremely difficult to implement, and described it as "political
posturing".

The British Property Federation (BPF) said: "There would be significant concern
in the landlord community if it was in effect being asked to police our borders.

Doctors and nurses also made it clear they did not want to act as a "border
agency". Clare Gerada, chairwoman of the Royal College of GPs, said doctors
should not be placed "in the invidious position of being the new border agency.
GPs have a duty of care to all people seeking healthcare, and should not be
expected to police access and turn people away when they are at their most
vulnerable," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "My Government will ban drums outside theatres..."
The Duke and Duchess of Cornwall attend the Queen's Speech for the first time
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD POHLE
GEOFF PUGH / WPA / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Now Portillo turns against Cameron on future of EU;
Portillo turns against Cameron on EU

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Kat Lay

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 613 words


Tory pressure on David Cameron over Europe intensified last night when Michael
Portillo and Boris Johnson both said Britain should be ready to quit the EU.

Mr Portillo, the former Cabinet minister, accused the Prime Minister of
resorting to a cynical referendum ploy that smacked of defeatism. He said that,
like Lord Lawson of Blaby, he would leave the EU today.

The Prime Minister's promised referendum was a manoeuvre that would lead to
"minimal renegotiation" and lacked conviction, he said, writing in The Times
today. "You cannot imagine Margaret Thatcher approaching the issue in such an
insincere and political way," he said.

Mr Johnson did not go as far as saying that he would quit the EU today, but said
it was "much less clear" that the UK would suffer by severing its ties with
Brussels. "The debate is of less existential importance," he said. Mr Johnson
favoured trying to renegotiate Britain's terms of membership, adding: "But we
should be prepared to leave if we cannot get what we want."

The comments came as Lord Lawson's call for Britain to leave the EU echoed
through a Tory parliamentary party fretting over the UKIP advances in last
week's local elections. The mood, which had been calm after a comparatively
uncontroversial Budget in March, improving poll numbers and a coming together
after the death of Lady Thatcher, has been shaken.

Lord Lawson's article in The Times on Tuesday, arguing that Mr Cameron's efforts
to renegotiate looser ties with Brussels were bound to be inconsequential, has
threatened to destabilise it further. One senior MP said they thought that the
number of Conservative colleagues who would vote to leave the EU immediately was
"between a Continued on page 4, col 2

Continued from page 1 third and a half". But on Europe, Mr Cameron has little
room for manoeuvre in Parliament, given that Nick Clegg has made clear he would
block any new government measures towards accelerating or underwriting the Prime
Minster's promise of a referendum in 2017.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said that the Government would not shift
ground to please Mr Farage.

"It can't be the approach of governing parties to give in to every vehicle of
protest every time a protest arises," he said. "We are implementing the
programme of the coalition Government in the national interest." However, No 10
has signalled that Mr Cameron will back any Private Member's Bill that would
allow MPs to vote on enshrining in law his promised 2017 referendum.

Mr Portillo said that ministers were lagging behind the public over their
willingness to contemplate severing ties with Brussels. Without naming Mr
Cameron, he said: "They whinge about Europe but they don't have the
selfconfidence to pull out. The default position of the political class is
defeatism: they believe that Britain could not survive outside the Union."

Mr Johnson, speaking at the official opening of a new enterprise centre in North
London, said that the EU had changed much in the past ten years and Britain had
to think globally.

"The downside of pulling out is much less clear. The share of our exports going
outside Europe is growing. If you look at the growth economies of the world,
they are not in Europe, they are outside Europe. What I would say is that the
debate is of less existential importance.

"Given the choice, I would rather remain in the single market but only if we get
a decent renegotiation. If David can get some sensible changes to the way the EU
is run, and we minimise what is done, reduce some of the bureaucracy, that would
be fine.

"I am in favour of renegotiation, but we should be prepared to leave if we
cannot get what we want."

Continued from page 1 third [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Britain in Europe

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words


Lord Lawson has posed an essential question. When a new Europe emerges after the
euro crisis it will be time to decide whether Britain wishes to remain a member
When Harold Wilson renegotiated the British position in the European Common
Market in 1975 his empty-handed return was greeted as a triumph.

Wilson had taken the precaution not just of specifying in advance what a
successful venture would look like but travelling in the knowledge that success
was already assured. For all the fanfare that accompanied the supposed
renegotiation, the process was cosmetic and, strictly in terms of political
chicanery, successful.

This is not the position that David Cameron finds himself in as he contemplates
a new settlement of British's relationship with the European Union. Lord Lawson
of Blaby yesterday became the first senior politician to call explicitly for
British withdrawal. Lord Lawson's intervention is welcome because it will
precipitate a resolution of the question that has hung over British politics
since the formation of the single currency - whether our destiny as a nation is
partly within the EU or wholly without.

Lord Lawson puts his finger on the main point at issue, which is whether the
Prime Minister can really expect to come back with substantively positive
changes to Britain's position. Mr Cameron has set out a grand vision of the
Europe he would like to see but he has pointedly not specified the clauses and
powers that he would like repatriated to Britain. It is not yet obvious, even by
Mr Cameron's own lights, what a successful negotiation would look like.

It has to be said that this is hardly Mr Cameron's fault. The European Union is
in the midst of the most severe fiscal crisis in its short history. Member
states have clung on tenaciously to the euro but an abiding solution is elusive
and the economic states of Greece, Portugal and Spain remain parlous. France and
the Netherlands are hardly healthy, either. In due course, some further economic
and fiscal union will be necessary but the political elites, especially in
Germany, know that they do not have the consent of their electorates for any
further integration.

Whatever the final upshot of the eurozone mess, a Europe will emerge out of the
crisis that differs from the Europe that entered it. It is sensible in those
circumstances to await the settlement that the eurozone members arrive at before
coming to a definitive judgment. It makes sense to assess the nature of the
European Union of which we remain a member before deciding whether or not to
remain so.

That will also be a good moment to renegotiate Britain's position, which will
change purely as a result of the further integration that is inevitable in the
eurozone. If Mr Cameron were able to use this moment to secure a reduction in
the regulatory burden that comes from Brussels, protect the future of financial
services in the City of London, limit encroachment on foreign and defence policy
and control our borders, his renegotiation would have proved worthwhile.

It would, however, be naive to be optimistic about the Prime Minister's chance
of success. There are 26 other nations in the EU, all of whom well may demand
special treatment if favours are granted to Britain. It may be that the British
rebate is the price that Mr Cameron would have to pay, and even then he would
not be offered much. Though Britain is not entirely without allies, Mr Cameron's
semi-detached stance has not endeared him to those whose support he will depend
upon for a successful outcome. There is, also, the barrier of a general election
between the pledge of a referendum on a mooted new bargain.

There is much about the future of Europe that is uncertain but the day is coming
when, almost four decades after the first referendum on Europe, the question
will need to be settled again and, as our poll shows today, the mood in Britain
is hardening against Europe.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

The EU has pushed Britain 'out' already;
No other European country shares our concern at the lack of democracy in the EU

BYLINE: Gisela Stuart

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 837 words


Should we stay in the EU or leave? Before we can even answer that question we
have to first understand the true nature of the European project. Not the idea
of an Economic Community as sold to the British people in the 1975 referendum.
Not the EU as mainstream politicians still describe it. Nor even the EU of bendy
bananas and crooked expenses that appears in the tabloids. It's time to think
about the real European Union and its fundamental characteristics. Three stand
out to me.

The first is that the EU has already largely left Britain behind. It has left us
before we have even begun to consider whether we want to leave it. The second
feature is that today's EU is characterised by an increasing concentration of
economic power. And, third, the modern EU is both undemocratic and, worse, there
is no great demand from within any other major European power for this
democratic deficit to be addressed.

Let's take each characteristic in turn.

First, the direction of travel of the European project - a direction that is
taking it further and further away from Britain. Whenever Britain's relationship
with the EU is discussed there is much talk of trains leaving stations and of
Britain missing boats. These metaphors have sometimes been misused but, today,
with the EU's political establishment determined not just to defend monetary
union but to move towards political union it is not a question of whether
Britain should jump on a train or boat. The issue is that the train has already
left the station; Britain is already outside the main club and is excluded from
key decisions.

In his article in The Times yesterday Lord Lawson spelt out the consequences of
this. Our European partners are already devising laws and regulations that are
to the detriment of key British industries, notably financial services. This is
not some future threat. It is today's reality. Most significantly the detachment
is set to become greater as other EU leaders add political and fiscal union to
monetary union.

The second feature is the concentration of economic power in an ever more
centralised eurozone. Unfortunately Europe lacks a figure of Helmut Kohl's
outlook. The former German Chancellor believed that his country had to keep
making concessions to ensure all EU nations felt that it was a genuine
partnership. This was what he sought to achieve by giving smaller nations
disproportionate voting rights in decision-making.

When David Cameron says it is in Britain's interest to have a strong,
functioning eurozone and fiscal union, is he even aware of basic European
history? Has he no understanding that ever closer union is building something
that conflicts with the historical objectives of British foreign policy? One
hundred years ago Britain fought a war to stop the continent being dominated by
a single power. There is nothing in the coalition's strategy that will prevent
this new concentration of power on our doorstep. We may hope the push to ever
closer union might fail, and there is a good chance that it will, but hope is
not a strategy. Mr Cameron's review of competences - like John Major's review 20
years ago - does not begin to tackle the challenges posed by the emergence of
this European superstate.

The third feature of today's EU is a lack of democracy. In a democracy the voter
can change how they are governed; in the existing EU there is almost no talk of
this kind of accountability and the European Parliament is remote from the
people. The European project is proceeding without any serious discussion of how
democracy might be advanced.

There is no serious force in continental politics that is worried about the
undemocratic direction of Europe. It is sometimes said that the new, supposedly
Eurosceptic party - Alternative for Germany - shows that opinion is changing in
Germany. In my dealings with the AfD I see a party that is unhappy at Germany's
lack of control of European institutions and is concerned that they do not
provide sufficient benefits for Germans. I do not detect a determination to
overhaul those institutions or reverse the trend towards ever closer union.
There is no strong support for the kind of democratic revolution that most
people in Britain would regard as absolutely necessary for us to be part of this
new Europe.

This takes us back to Nigel Lawson's important intervention yesterday. He has
moved the debate away from process and Westminster talk of referendums and
locks, and on to the substance: our relationship with the rest of Europe. We
need to wake up to the fact that the EU isn't just changing but has already
changed - fundamentally and in ways that are not advantageous to Britain. This
change raises the big question about whether - outside basic trade and cultural
co-operation - we want to be a continuing part of it. I have come to the same
conclusion as Lord Lawson. The answer to the question "Should we stay in the EU?
" has to be "No".

Gisela Stuart is Labour MP for Birmingham Edgbaston

We are outside the main club, excluded from key decisions

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Lawson has moved the debate from the process on to the substance

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron needs a big-tent Conservatism;
Defectors to Nigel Farage came mostly from older voters. Cameron needs to
attract the young and the aspiring

BYLINE: Daniel Finkelstein

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1060 words


In 1987 I got my first job. I worked as a journalist on a small magazine,
sharing an electric typewriter with two colleagues. In 1988 we won a prize and
received a single PC which we would all fight over as deadline day approached.

The PC wasn't connected to anything, no one was, since the world wide web didn't
exist yet. It would be another two years before Tim Berners-Lee even proposed
the idea. But my friends thought our rudimentary equipment was amusing since the
title of the magazine was Network, its subject was office computer networking
and the prize we won was Technology Magazine of the Year.

Nobody - or hardly anybody - had a mobile phone either. There was a mobile where
you could get a signal, but only if you stood outside a post office or a main
line railway station. I remember the press release.

In 1987 we were still several years off having Sky TV and Channel 4 hadn't
reached its fifth birthday. The Premier League hadn't begun yet. David Cameron,
Ed Balls and Nick Clegg were still undergraduates, Ed Miliband was studying for
his A levels, George Osborne for his O levels (the GCSE didn't replace it for
another year).

In 1987 Liberace died, still suing people who claimed that he was homosexual.
Very few people, and almost no politicians, had come out as gay, the immigrant
population in the UK was small, nobody took much of an interest in Islamic
fundamentalism, Margaret Thatcher was regarded as a strong supporter of the
European Community, the Soviet Union was between perestroika and glasnost and
still years off collapse.

Politically, socially, economically, 1987 was a long time ago. And the last time
the Conservative Party won a majority big enough to endure for an entire
Parliament was 1987.

The most pessimistic UKIP member is correct. The country they grew up in has
changed and it is changing. The youngest person to vote in 1987 is now 44 years
old. Britain is a different place in many ways. And the Right has struggled as
this change has taken place.

Last week UKIP won votes that came disproportionately from older voters,
particularly those who are not graduates and who are not optimistic about the
country. And if David Cameron has been reading the papers since then he will not
have been in want of advice about how to win them back.

But Conservatives need to understand that winning these people back isn't the
only problem. The problem is how to form a broad coalition with these people as
only one part.

You see, winning elderly pessimistic white males has not been the Tory
difficulty over the last quarter of a century. The difficulty has been winning
people beyond this group.

Let me provide an example.

Everyone seems to agree that one of the reasons Mitt Romney lost the US
presidential election was that he didn't win enough votes from ethnic minority
voters. And it is widely accepted that the Republicans are doomed unless they
can do something about it. Well, Mitt Romney won the support of 18 per cent of
minority voters. In 2012 the Conservatives won the support of 16 per cent of
minority voters. Only 73 per cent of the population under 5 years old is white.

Or let's take gay marriage. David Cameron is being advised by some of his MPs to
drop the proposal because it is so unpopular. But this isn't true. It is
unpopular with over-65s. It is strongly popular - something like two to one -
with all other age groups and all social classes. For every one person under the
age of 40 who opposes gay marriage, nearly five support it. And they regard
opposition to it as rather odd.

The Conservative Party cannot, of course it cannot, dismiss older voters or
ignore their concerns. It needs to reassure them that their central concerns are
being addressed and that their opinions matter. It needs to find inventive ways
- the benefit cap is a good example, the European referendum another - to talk
to these voters and a wider constituency at the same time.

But at the same time it cannot win - indeed it has no future at all - with just
these people. The Conservative Party has to capture the young, has to win the
optimists and the aspirers and has to appeal to those who want to support a
moderate pragmatic party of government.

The mainstream Right sees its job primarily as trying to put pressure on David
Cameron to meet UKIP's demands. They might consider that they have another
serious task. It is to explain to Tory core voters and defectors, and to the
rest of the Right, that they cannot govern by themselves, pleasing only
themselves. There aren't enough of such people. They have to compromise. They
need the support of others to have a majority and a future.

On Friday Nigel Farage cited the rebellious Canadian Reform Party and the way it
had overhauled the governing Progressive Conservatives.

And he was quite right. In 1993 they split its vote and almost destroyed it. But
Mr Farage failed to say what happened next.

Over successive elections Reform failed to improve on its inital showing. It
could get core votes in the West of Canada, but nothing much more. The Canadian
liberal Left therefore had majorities for 12 years until the Right reunited. It
became the Conservative Party, moving back towards roughly the same ideological
position it had in 1993. Everyone had gone around in a big circle and ended up
pretty much back where they started.

Because the course of modernisation that David Cameron has embarked upon cannot
be avoided.

Mathematically, demographically, it cannot be wished away. Core Conservatives
cannot govern by themselves. They have to win the support of centre voters to
the Tory cause or share government with others like the Liberal Democrats.

The Right - all of us - needs to understand what the challenge is and how severe
it is. Conservatives can solve the UKIP problem easily enough. William Hague
did. Michael Howard did. The real challenge is to solve the problem at the same
time as winning new voters that have been departing from the right for more than
two decades.

Britain can have governments of the right, but they will be open, socially
liberal, moderate, ethnically diverse, optimistic and willing to compromise or
they will not win power. That message, after all, put David Cameron in Downing
Street in 2010.

daniel.finkelstein@thetimes.co.uk

Gay marriage is strongly popular except with over-65s

The Right must be open, socially liberal and ethnically diverse

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1987: Liberace died - and the Tories last won a decent majority in
Parliament
DAGLEY/REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

There's only one issue on a good day for Nigels

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 482 words


On the way to the Prime Minister's press conference, I walked by a sign that
proclaimed "The Duel for Europe". I peered more closely at the poster. Had it
come to this? Pistols at dawn with Nigel Farage? And then I saw the smaller
type: "British diplomacy in war and peace, 1800 to 1830s".

Plus ça change! Oops, sorry, didn't mean to go all French there. The press
conference was at the Foreign Office - so much grander than No 10 that I don't
know why Dave doesn't use it more often. Here they see Europe in all its
historical perspective and not anything to do with Nigel Farage or, indeed, that
other Nigel, as in Lawson, who yesterday revealed that he wants to leave the EU.

The press conference was supposed to be about Somalia. I wondered if, a la
Women's Institute, anyone would come dressed as a pirate (or indeed, a dueller).
Britain had hosted this conference on Somalia, which is struggling to tackle
terrorism, crime and piracy (down 80 per cent, don't tell the WI). But I think
we all knew that the press conference, for Dave at least, was going to be about
Europe.

Sure enough, the first question from the UK side began: "On the domestic front."
Did I see Dave's jaw tense? His hair is getting greyer again around the back. I
wondered if Dave had heard Lord Lawson, being interviewed by Martha Kearney on
the World at One earlier, delivering a truly masterful putdown.

Martha: "Nick Clegg says if were to leave the EU, it would jeopardise up to
three million jobs."

Nigel L: "That is poppycock. I don't think Nick Clegg, who is a charming young
man, has ever purported to know anything about economics."

I looked at Dave, another charming young man, who now was adopting the
wide-legged stance of someone under attack. This was the brace position or,
possibly, the precursor to doing the splits, something Tories know a lot about.

"Do you agree that it's been a good day for UKIP, thanks to one of your own?"
asked the hack. Surely Dave should be able to convince the likes of Nigel Lawson
to stay in the EU.

"I think it's been a good day!" cried Dave, legs so wide that I feared for his
inside trouser seams.

Good day? I do hope this was not, dare I say it, poppycock. Dave explained how
marvellous it was that people were talking about his promise for an in-out
referendum.

"I welcome the attention that is being placed on this key pledge that I have
made," he said, hands gripping the side of the lectern. "Only the Conservatives
are making this promise!" Dave now explained that his "key pledge" would give us
a "proper" choice. Ah yes, "proper". This is one of my Dave alert words. It's an
all encompassing comfort word that he uses to convince people he is right.
Expect to hear a lot of it on Europe.

"Frankly I welcome the attention that is being put on this very clear promise!"
he trilled. OK Dave, I think we have got the idea. It's been a great day - but
only if your name is Nigel.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron adopted the stance of someone who was under attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Voters tell Cameron to cut Europe down to size;
Majority back Lawson call to quit EU, poll shows ; Voters tell Cameron to cut
Europe down to size

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 956 words


Voters and Tory MPs warned David Cameron that he must scale back Britain's
relationship with the European Union to little more than free trade or risk
losing a referendum.

As Lord Lawson of Blaby's call for Britain to quit the EU sent shockwaves
through Westminster, senior MPs challenged the Prime Minister to scrap most of
the Union's powers.

A shopping list being drawn up by influential backbenchers includes social and
employment law, the Common Agricultural Policy, the Common Fisheries Policy and
justice and home affairs legislation.

Should Mr Cameron fail to negotiate a new relationship with Brussels more akin
to a common market, MPs warned that he would find a significant number of his
parliamentary party turning against him in his promised referendum.

The stance is backed by a poll today which shows a majority of voters want
either a completely new relationship with the EU or to leave altogether. Forty
two per cent of voters said that they wanted a relationship based on free trade
and little else while 21 per cent called for British withdrawal, according to
the YouGov poll for The Times. If there was an in-out referendum tomorrow, 46
per cent said they would vote to quit the EU against 35 per cent who would vote
to stay in.

It also shows deep public scepticism about Mr Cameron's assertion that he can,
and will, secure substantial changes as he negotiates with fellow EU leaders
during the next four years. More than half of voters (53 per cent) said that
they believed the fruits of his negotiations would be small.

The findings came as the Tory back benches fractured in response to Lord
Lawson's bombshell in The Times yesterday.

David Davis, the senior MP, said that the former Chancellor's intervention was
"like throwing a sugar cube into a bottle of Coke". It altered the balance of
the argument dramatically. "He has made aggressive Euroscepticism mainstream."

Mr Davis, who supports the drive for a recast relationship rather than swift
withdrawal, urged Mr Cameron to adopt a "more muscular approach" when dealing
with EU leaders, arguing that Lord Lawson's call for a British exit may help to
strengthen the Prime Minister's negotiating hand.

"The settlement we might get could be a lot better," he said, but only if Mr
Cameron talked tougher.

Mr Davis added: "It doesn't necessarily end up with us leaving. It may end up
with a much better deal. The more serious we are about leaving the less likely
Continued on page 6, col 1

Continued from page 1 it is to happen. But the Prime Minister has to employ a
more muscular approach."

Mr Cameron insisted that Lord Lawson's intervention marked a good day for his
European strategy, to promise an in-out referendum in 2017 on the results of a
renegotiation. But Lord Lawson dismissed the approach, saying that anything he
secured in talks with the 26 other EU leaders would be inconsequential.

The Prime Minister said: "I want to give people a choice not between the status
quo and leaving the EU. I want to give people a choice between Britain remaining
in a reformed EU or leaving that EU. That is the choice that people want."

The only way to get it was to vote Tory at the next election, he added,
rehearsing a key line from his 2015 general election script that will attempt to
persuade voters that backing UKIP is a wasted vote.

But Tory backbenchers attacked the Prime Minister's position. Bernard Jenkin
said that Lord Lawson was "absolutely right". The idea that Mr Cameron could
negotiate the UK out of the Treaty of Rome was "moonshine".

Sir Gerald Howarth said that leaving the EU would be "the only option" if Mr
Cameron failed to secure substantial changes. John Redwood, the former Cabinet
minster, said that the relationship must be pared back to one of predominantly
trade.

But Margot James, a member of Mr Cameron's newly formed No 10 policy board, said
that Lord Lawson had underestimated the economic costs of a British exit.

There are now at least five positions adopted by Tory MPs towards the EU and a
referendum - leave now, as advocated by Lord Lawson; legislate now to guarantee
in law a 2017 in-out referendum, championed by MP John Baron and backed by more
than 100 Tory MPs; hold a "mandate" referendum next Spring to empower Mr
Cameron's negotiating hand, promoted by David Davis; stage an EU referendum on
the same day as the May 2015 general election, supported by Sarah Woolaston; and
Mr Cameron's negotiate now, vote later approach.

Nick Clegg warned that leaving the EU would cost millions of jobs.

But Lord Lawson responded: "Of course that's poppycock, but I don't think Nick
Clegg, who's a charming young man, has ever purported to know anything at all
about economics."

European Union In or out? QIF there was a referendum on Britain's membership of
the EU, how would you vote? 35% 46% Remain in EU Leave EU 16% Don't know 4%
Would not vote QWhich statement better reflects your view of the EU? 45% A
bureaucratic and undemocratic monstrosity that cannot be reformed 36% Although
it has its failings, it can be reformed and made to work more effectively 3%
Neither 16% Don't know Source: YouGov Q ¦ People hold different views about how
they would like to see the EU develop. Which comes closest to yours? A less
integrated Europe, little more than a free trade area 42% Complete British
withdrawal 21% No change 12% Don't know 11% A more integrated EU with a single
currency and no frontier controls 9% A fully integrated Europe 5% QWhich
statement better reflects your view? 32% 40% If we stay in, Britain will become
more marginalised as the Eurozone nations take big decisions without us Britain
can play an important and constructive role within the EU from outside the
Eurozone 10% Neither 18% Don't know

Continued from page 1 it [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron needs a big-tent Conservatism;
Defectors to Nigel Farage came mostly from older voters. Cameron needs to
attract the young and the aspiring

BYLINE: Daniel Finkelstein

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1060 words


In 1987 I got my first job. I worked as a journalist on a small magazine,
sharing an electric typewriter with two colleagues. In 1988 we won a prize and
received a single PC which we would all fight over as deadline day approached.

The PC wasn't connected to anything, no one was, since the world wide web didn't
exist yet. It would be another two years before Tim Berners-Lee even proposed
the idea. But my friends thought our rudimentary equipment was amusing since the
title of the magazine was Network, its subject was office computer networking
and the prize we won was Technology Magazine of the Year.

Nobody - or hardly anybody - had a mobile phone either. There was a mobile where
you could get a signal, but only if you stood outside a post office or a main
line railway station. I remember the press release.

In 1987 we were still several years off having Sky TV and Channel 4 hadn't
reached its fifth birthday. The Premier League hadn't begun yet. David Cameron,
Ed Balls and Nick Clegg were still undergraduates, Ed Miliband was studying for
his A levels, George Osborne for his O levels (the GCSE didn't replace it for
another year).

In 1987 Liberace died, still suing people who claimed that he was homosexual.
Very few people, and almost no politicians, had come out as gay, the immigrant
population in the UK was small, nobody took much of an interest in Islamic
fundamentalism, Margaret Thatcher was regarded as a strong supporter of the
European Community, the Soviet Union was between perestroika and glasnost and
still years off collapse.

Politically, socially, economically, 1987 was a long time ago. And the last time
the Conservative Party won a majority big enough to endure for an entire
Parliament was 1987.

The most pessimistic UKIP member is correct. The country they grew up in has
changed and it is changing. The youngest person to vote in 1987 is now 44 years
old. Britain is a different place in many ways. And the Right has struggled as
this change has taken place.

Last week UKIP won votes that came disproportionately from older voters,
particularly those who are not graduates and who are not optimistic about the
country. And if David Cameron has been reading the papers since then he will not
have been in want of advice about how to win them back.

But Conservatives need to understand that winning these people back isn't the
only problem. The problem is how to form a broad coalition with these people as
only one part.

You see, winning elderly pessimistic white males has not been the Tory
difficulty over the last quarter of a century. The difficulty has been winning
people beyond this group.

Let me provide an example.

Everyone seems to agree that one of the reasons Mitt Romney lost the US
presidential election was that he didn't win enough votes from ethnic minority
voters. And it is widely accepted that the Republicans are doomed unless they
can do something about it. Well, Mitt Romney won the support of 18 per cent of
minority voters. In 2012 the Conservatives won the support of 16 per cent of
minority voters. Only 73 per cent of the population under 5 years old is white.

Or let's take gay marriage. David Cameron is being advised by some of his MPs to
drop the proposal because it is so unpopular. But this isn't true. It is
unpopular with over-65s. It is strongly popular - something like two to one -
with all other age groups and all social classes. For every one person under the
age of 40 who opposes gay marriage, nearly five support it. And they regard
opposition to it as rather odd.

The Conservative Party cannot, of course it cannot, dismiss older voters or
ignore their concerns. It needs to reassure them that their central concerns are
being addressed and that their opinions matter. It needs to find inventive ways
- the benefit cap is a good example, the European referendum another - to talk
to these voters and a wider constituency at the same time.

But at the same time it cannot win - indeed it has no future at all - with just
these people. The Conservative Party has to capture the young, has to win the
optimists and the aspirers and has to appeal to those who want to support a
moderate pragmatic party of government.

The mainstream Right sees its job primarily as trying to put pressure on David
Cameron to meet UKIP's demands. They might consider that they have another
serious task. It is to explain to Tory core voters and defectors, and to the
rest of the Right, that they cannot govern by themselves, pleasing only
themselves. There aren't enough of such people. They have to compromise. They
need the support of others to have a majority and a future.

On Friday Nigel Farage cited the rebellious Canadian Reform Party and the way it
had overhauled the governing Progressive Conservatives.

And he was quite right. In 1993 they split its vote and almost destroyed it. But
Mr Farage failed to say what happened next.

Over successive elections Reform failed to improve on its inital showing. It
could get core votes in the West of Canada, but nothing much more. The Canadian
liberal Left therefore had majorities for 12 years until the Right reunited. It
became the Conservative Party, moving back towards roughly the same ideological
position it had in 1993. Everyone had gone around in a big circle and ended up
pretty much back where they started.

Because the course of modernisation that David Cameron has embarked upon cannot
be avoided.

Mathematically, demographically, it cannot be wished away. Core Conservatives
cannot govern by themselves. They have to win the support of centre voters to
the Tory cause or share government with others like the Liberal Democrats.

The Right - all of us - needs to understand what the challenge is and how severe
it is. Conservatives can solve the UKIP problem easily enough. William Hague
did. Michael Howard did. The real challenge is to solve the problem at the same
time as winning new voters that have been departing from the right for more than
two decades.

Britain can have governments of the right, but they will be open, socially
liberal, moderate, ethnically diverse, optimistic and willing to compromise or
they will not win power. That message, after all, put David Cameron in Downing
Street in 2010.

daniel.finkelstein@thetimes.co.uk

Gay marriage is strongly popular except with over-65s

The Right must be open, socially liberal and ethnically diverse

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1987: Liberace died - and the Tories last won a decent majority in
Parliament
DAGLEY/REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The EU has pushed Britain 'out' already;
No other European country shares our concern at the lack of democracy in the EU

BYLINE: Gisela Stuart

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 837 words


Should we stay in the EU or leave? Before we can even answer that question we
have to first understand the true nature of the European project. Not the idea
of an Economic Community as sold to the British people in the 1975 referendum.
Not the EU as mainstream politicians still describe it. Nor even the EU of bendy
bananas and crooked expenses that appears in the tabloids. It's time to think
about the real European Union and its fundamental characteristics. Three stand
out to me.

The first is that the EU has already largely left Britain behind. It has left us
before we have even begun to consider whether we want to leave it. The second
feature is that today's EU is characterised by an increasing concentration of
economic power. And, third, the modern EU is both undemocratic and, worse, there
is no great demand from within any other major European power for this
democratic deficit to be addressed.

Let's take each characteristic in turn.

First, the direction of travel of the European project - a direction that is
taking it further and further away from Britain. Whenever Britain's relationship
with the EU is discussed there is much talk of trains leaving stations and of
Britain missing boats. These metaphors have sometimes been misused but, today,
with the EU's political establishment determined not just to defend monetary
union but to move towards political union it is not a question of whether
Britain should jump on a train or boat. The issue is that the train has already
left the station; Britain is already outside the main club and is excluded from
key decisions.

In his article in The Times yesterday Lord Lawson spelt out the consequences of
this. Our European partners are already devising laws and regulations that are
to the detriment of key British industries, notably financial services. This is
not some future threat. It is today's reality. Most significantly the detachment
is set to become greater as other EU leaders add political and fiscal union to
monetary union.

The second feature is the concentration of economic power in an ever more
centralised eurozone. Unfortunately Europe lacks a figure of Helmut Kohl's
outlook. The former German Chancellor believed that his country had to keep
making concessions to ensure all EU nations felt that it was a genuine
partnership. This was what he sought to achieve by giving smaller nations
disproportionate voting rights in decision-making.

When David Cameron says it is in Britain's interest to have a strong,
functioning eurozone and fiscal union, is he even aware of basic European
history? Has he no understanding that ever closer union is building something
that conflicts with the historical objectives of British foreign policy? One
hundred years ago Britain fought a war to stop the continent being dominated by
a single power. There is nothing in the coalition's strategy that will prevent
this new concentration of power on our doorstep. We may hope the push to ever
closer union might fail, and there is a good chance that it will, but hope is
not a strategy. Mr Cameron's review of competences - like John Major's review 20
years ago - does not begin to tackle the challenges posed by the emergence of
this European superstate.

The third feature of today's EU is a lack of democracy. In a democracy the voter
can change how they are governed; in the existing EU there is almost no talk of
this kind of accountability and the European Parliament is remote from the
people. The European project is proceeding without any serious discussion of how
democracy might be advanced.

There is no serious force in continental politics that is worried about the
undemocratic direction of Europe. It is sometimes said that the new, supposedly
Eurosceptic party - Alternative for Germany - shows that opinion is changing in
Germany. In my dealings with the AfD I see a party that is unhappy at Germany's
lack of control of European institutions and is concerned that they do not
provide sufficient benefits for Germans. I do not detect a determination to
overhaul those institutions or reverse the trend towards ever closer union.
There is no strong support for the kind of democratic revolution that most
people in Britain would regard as absolutely necessary for us to be part of this
new Europe.

This takes us back to Nigel Lawson's important intervention yesterday. He has
moved the debate away from process and Westminster talk of referendums and
locks, and on to the substance: our relationship with the rest of Europe. We
need to wake up to the fact that the EU isn't just changing but has already
changed - fundamentally and in ways that are not advantageous to Britain. This
change raises the big question about whether - outside basic trade and cultural
co-operation - we want to be a continuing part of it. I have come to the same
conclusion as Lord Lawson. The answer to the question "Should we stay in the EU?
" has to be "No".

Gisela Stuart is Labour MP for Birmingham Edgbaston

We are outside the main club, excluded from key decisions

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Lawson has moved the debate from the process on to the substance

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain in Europe

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words


Lord Lawson has posed an essential question. When a new Europe emerges after the
euro crisis it will be time to decide whether Britain wishes to remain a member
When Harold Wilson renegotiated the British position in the European Common
Market in 1975 his empty-handed return was greeted as a triumph.

Wilson had taken the precaution not just of specifying in advance what a
successful venture would look like but travelling in the knowledge that success
was already assured. For all the fanfare that accompanied the supposed
renegotiation, the process was cosmetic and, strictly in terms of political
chicanery, successful.

This is not the position that David Cameron finds himself in as he contemplates
a new settlement of British's relationship with the European Union. Lord Lawson
of Blaby yesterday became the first senior politician to call explicitly for
British withdrawal. Lord Lawson's intervention is welcome because it will
precipitate a resolution of the question that has hung over British politics
since the formation of the single currency - whether our destiny as a nation is
partly within the EU or wholly without.

Lord Lawson puts his finger on the main point at issue, which is whether the
Prime Minister can really expect to come back with substantively positive
changes to Britain's position. Mr Cameron has set out a grand vision of the
Europe he would like to see but he has pointedly not specified the clauses and
powers that he would like repatriated to Britain. It is not yet obvious, even by
Mr Cameron's own lights, what a successful negotiation would look like.

It has to be said that this is hardly Mr Cameron's fault. The European Union is
in the midst of the most severe fiscal crisis in its short history. Member
states have clung on tenaciously to the euro but an abiding solution is elusive
and the economic states of Greece, Portugal and Spain remain parlous. France and
the Netherlands are hardly healthy, either. In due course, some further economic
and fiscal union will be necessary but the political elites, especially in
Germany, know that they do not have the consent of their electorates for any
further integration.

Whatever the final upshot of the eurozone mess, a Europe will emerge out of the
crisis that differs from the Europe that entered it. It is sensible in those
circumstances to await the settlement that the eurozone members arrive at before
coming to a definitive judgment. It makes sense to assess the nature of the
European Union of which we remain a member before deciding whether or not to
remain so.

That will also be a good moment to renegotiate Britain's position, which will
change purely as a result of the further integration that is inevitable in the
eurozone. If Mr Cameron were able to use this moment to secure a reduction in
the regulatory burden that comes from Brussels, protect the future of financial
services in the City of London, limit encroachment on foreign and defence policy
and control our borders, his renegotiation would have proved worthwhile.

It would, however, be naive to be optimistic about the Prime Minister's chance
of success. There are 26 other nations in the EU, all of whom well may demand
special treatment if favours are granted to Britain. It may be that the British
rebate is the price that Mr Cameron would have to pay, and even then he would
not be offered much. Though Britain is not entirely without allies, Mr Cameron's
semi-detached stance has not endeared him to those whose support he will depend
upon for a successful outcome. There is, also, the barrier of a general election
between the pledge of a referendum on a mooted new bargain.

There is much about the future of Europe that is uncertain but the day is coming
when, almost four decades after the first referendum on Europe, the question
will need to be settled again and, as our poll shows today, the mood in Britain
is hardening against Europe.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

There's only one issue on a good day for Nigels

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 482 words


On the way to the Prime Minister's press conference, I walked by a sign that
proclaimed "The Duel for Europe". I peered more closely at the poster. Had it
come to this? Pistols at dawn with Nigel Farage? And then I saw the smaller
type: "British diplomacy in war and peace, 1800 to 1830s".

Plus ça change! Oops, sorry, didn't mean to go all French there. The press
conference was at the Foreign Office - so much grander than No 10 that I don't
know why Dave doesn't use it more often. Here they see Europe in all its
historical perspective and not anything to do with Nigel Farage or, indeed, that
other Nigel, as in Lawson, who yesterday revealed that he wants to leave the EU.

The press conference was supposed to be about Somalia. I wondered if, a la
Women's Institute, anyone would come dressed as a pirate (or indeed, a dueller).
Britain had hosted this conference on Somalia, which is struggling to tackle
terrorism, crime and piracy (down 80 per cent, don't tell the WI). But I think
we all knew that the press conference, for Dave at least, was going to be about
Europe.

Sure enough, the first question from the UK side began: "On the domestic front."
Did I see Dave's jaw tense? His hair is getting greyer again around the back. I
wondered if Dave had heard Lord Lawson, being interviewed by Martha Kearney on
the World at One earlier, delivering a truly masterful putdown.

Martha: "Nick Clegg says if were to leave the EU, it would jeopardise up to
three million jobs."

Nigel L: "That is poppycock. I don't think Nick Clegg, who is a charming young
man, has ever purported to know anything about economics."

I looked at Dave, another charming young man, who now was adopting the
wide-legged stance of someone under attack. This was the brace position or,
possibly, the precursor to doing the splits, something Tories know a lot about.

"Do you agree that it's been a good day for UKIP, thanks to one of your own?"
asked the hack. Surely Dave should be able to convince the likes of Nigel Lawson
to stay in the EU.

"I think it's been a good day!" cried Dave, legs so wide that I feared for his
inside trouser seams.

Good day? I do hope this was not, dare I say it, poppycock. Dave explained how
marvellous it was that people were talking about his promise for an in-out
referendum.

"I welcome the attention that is being placed on this key pledge that I have
made," he said, hands gripping the side of the lectern. "Only the Conservatives
are making this promise!"

Dave now explained that his "key pledge" would give us a "proper" choice. Ah
yes, "proper". This is one of my Dave alert words. It's an all encompassing
comfort word that he uses to convince people he is right. Expect to hear a lot
of it on Europe.

"Frankly I welcome the attention that is being put on this very clear promise!"
he trilled. OK Dave, I think we have got the idea. It's been a great day - but
only if your name is Nigel.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron adopted the stance of someone who was under attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Voters tell Cameron to cut Europe down to size;
Majority back Lawson call to quit EU, poll showsVoters tell Cameron to cut
Europe down to size

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 950 words


Voters and Tory MPs warned David Cameron that he must scale back Britain's
relationship with the European Union to little more than free trade or risk
losing a referendum.

As Lord Lawson of Blaby's call for Britain to quit the EU sent shockwaves
through Westminster, senior MPs challenged the Prime Minister to scrap most of
the Union's powers.

A shopping list being drawn up by influential backbenchers includes social and
employment law, the Common Agricultural Policy, the Common Fisheries Policy and
justice and home affairs legislation.

Should Mr Cameron fail to negotiate a new relationship with Brussels more akin
to a common market, MPs warned that he would find a significant number of his
parliamentary party turning against him in his promised referendum.

The stance is backed by a poll today which shows a majority of voters want
either a completely new relationship with the EU or to leave altogether. Forty
two per cent of voters said that they wanted a relationship based on free trade
and little else while 21 per cent called for British withdrawal, according to
the YouGov poll for The Times. If there was an in-out referendum tomorrow, 46
per cent said they would vote to quit the EU against 35 per cent who would vote
to stay in.

It also shows deep public scepticism about Mr Cameron's assertion that he can,
and will, secure substantial changes as he negotiates with fellow EU leaders
during the next four years. More than half of voters (53 per cent) said that
they believed the fruits of his negotiations would be small.

The findings came as the Tory back benches fractured in response to Lord
Lawson's bombshell in The Times yesterday.

David Davis, the senior MP, said that the former Chancellor's intervention was
"like throwing a sugar cube into a bottle of Coke". It altered the balance of
the argument dramatically. "He has made aggressive Euroscepticism mainstream."

Mr Davis, who supports the drive for a recast relationship rather than swift
withdrawal, urged Mr Cameron to adopt a "more muscular approach" when dealing
with EU leaders, arguing that Lord Lawson's call for a British exit may help to
strengthen the Prime Minister's negotiating hand.

"The settlement we might get could be a lot better," he said, but only if Mr
Cameron talked tougher.

Mr Davis added: "It doesn't necessarily end up with us leaving. It may end up
with a much better deal. The more serious we are about leaving the less likely
it is to happen. But the Prime Minister has to employ a more muscular approach."

Mr Cameron insisted that Lord Lawson's intervention marked a good day for his
European strategy, to promise an in-out referendum in 2017 on the results of a
renegotiation. But Lord Lawson dismissed the approach, saying that anything he
secured in talks with the 26 other EU leaders would be inconsequential.

The Prime Minister said: "I want to give people a choice not between the status
quo and leaving the EU. I want to give people a choice between Britain remaining
in a reformed EU or leaving that EU. That is the choice that people want."

The only way to get it was to vote Tory at the next election, he added,
rehearsing a key line from his 2015 general election script that will attempt to
persuade voters that backing UKIP is a wasted vote.

But Tory backbenchers attacked the Prime Minister's position. Bernard Jenkin
said that Lord Lawson was "absolutely right". The idea that Mr Cameron could
negotiate the UK out of the Treaty of Rome was "moonshine".

Sir Gerald Howarth said that leaving the EU would be "the only option" if Mr
Cameron failed to secure substantial changes. John Redwood, the former Cabinet
minster, said that the relationship must be pared back to one of predominantly
trade.

But Margot James, a member of Mr Cameron's newly formed No 10 policy board, said
that Lord Lawson had underestimated the economic costs of a British exit.

There are now at least five positions adopted by Tory MPs towards the EU and a
referendum - leave now, as advocated by Lord Lawson; legislate now to guarantee
in law a 2017 in-out referendum, championed by MP John Baron and backed by more
than 100 Tory MPs; hold a "mandate" referendum next Spring to empower Mr
Cameron's negotiating hand, promoted by David Davis; stage an EU referendum on
the same day as the May 2015 general election, supported by Sarah Woolaston; and
Mr Cameron's negotiate now, vote later approach.

Nick Clegg warned that leaving the EU would cost millions of jobs.

But Lord Lawson responded: "Of course that's poppycock, but I don't think Nick
Clegg, who's a charming young man, has ever purported to know anything at all
about economics."

IN OR OUT?

35%  Remain in EU

46% Leave EU

20% Don't know

Source: YouGov

European Union In or out?

Q IF there was a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU, how would you
vote?

35%  Remain in EU

46% Leave EU

16% Don't know

4% Would not vote

Q Which statement better reflects your view of the EU?

45% A bureaucratic and undemocratic monstrosity that cannot be reformed

36% Although it has its failings, it can be reformed and made to work more
effectively

3% Neither

16% Don't know

Source: YouGov

Q  People hold different views about how they would like to see the EU develop.
Which comes closest to yours?

A less integrated Europe, little more than a free trade area

42%

Complete British withdrawal

21%

No change

12%

Don't know

11%

A more integrated EU with a single currency and no frontier controls

9%

A fully integrated Europe

5%

Q Which statement better reflects your view?

32% If we stay in, Britain will become more marginalised as the Eurozone nations
take big decisions without us

10% Neither

40% Britain can play an important and constructive role within the EU from
outside the Eurozone

18% Don't know

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Voters tell Cameron to cut Europe down to size;
Majority back Lawson call to quit EU, poll shows

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 938 words


Voters and Tory MPs warned David Cameron that he must scale back Britain's
relationship with the European Union to little more than free trade or risk
losing a referendum.

As Lord Lawson of Blaby's call for Britain to quit the EU sent shockwaves
through Westminster, senior MPs challenged the Prime Minister to scrap most of
the Union's powers.

A shopping list being drawn up by influential backbenchers includes social and
employment law, the Common Agricultural Policy, the Common Fisheries Policy and
justice and home affairs legislation.

Should Mr Cameron fail to negotiate a new relationship with Brussels more akin
to a common market, MPs warned that he would find a significant number of his
parliamentary party turning against him in his promised referendum.

The stance is backed by a poll today which shows a majority of voters want
either a completely new relationship with the EU or to leave altogether. Forty
two per cent of voters said that they wanted a relationship based on free trade
and little else while 21 per cent called for British withdrawal, according to
the YouGov poll for The Times.

If there was an in-out referendum tomorrow, 46 per cent said they would vote to
quit the EU against 35 per cent who would vote to stay in.

It also shows deep public scepticism about Mr Cameron's assertion that he can,
and will, secure substantial changes as he negotiates with fellow EU leaders
during the next four years. More than half of voters (53 per cent) said that
they believed the fruits of his negotiations would be small.

The findings came as the Tory back benches fractured in response to Lord
Lawson's bombshell in The Times yesterday.

David Davis, the senior MP, said that the former Chancellor's intervention was
"like throwing a sugar cube into a bottle of Coke". It altered the balance of
the argument dramatically. "He has made aggressive Euroscepticism mainstream."

Mr Davis, who supports the drive for a recast relationship rather than swift
withdrawal, urged Mr Cameron to adopt a "more muscular approach" when dealing
with EU leaders, arguing that Lord Lawson's call for a British exit may help to
strengthen the Prime Minister's negotiating hand.

"The settlement we might get could be a lot better," he said, but only if Mr
Cameron talked tougher.

Mr Davis added: "It doesn't necessarily end up with us leaving. It may end up
with a much better deal. The more serious we are about leaving the less likely
it is to happen. But the Prime Minister has to employ a more muscular approach."

Mr Cameron insisted that Lord Lawson's intervention marked a good day for his
European strategy, to promise an in-out referendum in 2017 on the results of a
renegotiation. But Lord Lawson dismissed the approach, saying that anything he
secured in talks with the 26 other EU leaders would be inconsequential.

The Prime Minister said: "I want to give people a choice not between the status
quo and leaving the EU. I want to give people a choice between Britain remaining
in a reformed EU or leaving that EU. That is the choice that people want."

The only way to get it was to vote Tory at the next election, he added,
rehearsing a key line from his 2015 general election script that will attempt to
persuade voters that backing UKIP is a wasted vote.

But Tory backbenchers attacked the Prime Minister's position. Bernard Jenkin
said that Lord Lawson was "absolutely right". The idea that Mr Cameron could
negotiate the UK out of the Treaty of Rome was "moonshine".

Sir Gerald Howarth said that leaving the EU would be "the only option" if Mr
Cameron failed to secure substantial changes. John Redwood, the former Cabinet
minster, said that the relationship must be pared back to one of predominantly
trade.

But Margot James, a member of Mr Cameron's newly formed No 10 policy board, said
that Lord Lawson had underestimated the economic costs of a British exit.

There are now at least five positions adopted by Tory MPs towards the EU and a
referendum - leave now, as advocated by Lord Lawson; legislate now to guarantee
in law a 2017 in-out referendum, championed by MP John Baron and backed by more
than 100 Tory MPs; hold a "mandate" referendum next Spring to empower Mr
Cameron's negotiating hand, promoted by David Davis; stage an EU referendum on
the same day as the May 2015 general election, supported by Sarah Woolaston; and
Mr Cameron's negotiate now, vote later approach.

Nick Clegg warned that leaving the EU would cost millions of jobs.

But Lord Lawson responded: "Of course that's poppycock, but I don't think Nick
Clegg, who's a charming young man, has ever purported to know anything at all
about economics."

European Union In or out?

Q IF there was a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU, how would you
vote?

35% Remain in EU

46%  Leave EU

16% Don't know

4%  Would not vote

Q Which statement better reflects your view of the EU?

45%

A bureaucratic and undemocratic monstrosity that cannot be reformed

36%

Although it has its failings, it can be reformed and made to work more
effectively

3% Neither

16%

Don't know

Q People hold different views about how they would like to see the EU develop.
Which comes closest to yours?

A less integrated Europe, little more than a free trade area

42%

Complete British withdrawal

21%

No change

12%

Don't know

11%

A more integrated EU with a single currency and no frontier controls 9%

A fully integrated Europe 5%

Q Which statement better reflects your view?

32%

If we stay in, Britain will become more marginalised as the Eurozone nations
take big decisions without us

40%

Britain can play an important and constructive role within the EU from outside
the Eurozone

10% Neither

18% Don't know

Source: YouGov

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

There's only one issue on a good day for Nigels

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 482 words


On the way to the Prime Minister's press conference, I walked by a sign that
proclaimed "The Duel for Europe". I peered more closely at the poster. Had it
come to this? Pistols at dawn with Nigel Farage? And then I saw the smaller
type: "British diplomacy in war and peace, 1800 to 1830s".

Plus ça change! Oops, sorry, didn't mean to go all French there. The press
conference was at the Foreign Office - so much grander than No 10 that I don't
know why Dave doesn't use it more often. Here they see Europe in all its
historical perspective and not anything to do with Nigel Farage or, indeed, that
other Nigel, as in Lawson, who yesterday revealed that he wants to leave the EU.

The press conference was supposed to be about Somalia. I wondered if, a la
Women's Institute, anyone would come dressed as a pirate (or indeed, a dueller).
Britain had hosted this conference on Somalia, which is struggling to tackle
terrorism, crime and piracy (down 80 per cent, don't tell the WI). But I think
we all knew that the press conference, for Dave at least, was going to be about
Europe.

Sure enough, the first question from the UK side began: "On the domestic front."
Did I see Dave's jaw tense? His hair is getting greyer again around the back. I
wondered if Dave had heard Lord Lawson, being interviewed by Martha Kearney on
the World at One earlier, delivering a truly masterful putdown.

Martha: "Nick Clegg says if were to leave the EU, it would jeopardise up to
three million jobs."

Nigel L: "That is poppycock. I don't think Nick Clegg, who is a charming young
man, has ever purported to know anything about economics."

I looked at Dave, another charming young man, who now was adopting the
wide-legged stance of someone under attack. This was the brace position or,
possibly, the precursor to doing the splits, something Tories know a lot about.

"Do you agree that it's been a good day for UKIP, thanks to one of your own?"
asked the hack. Surely Dave should be able to convince the likes of Nigel Lawson
to stay in the EU.

"I think it's been a good day!" cried Dave, legs so wide that I feared for his
inside trouser seams.

Good day? I do hope this was not, dare I say it, poppycock. Dave explained how
marvellous it was that people were talking about his promise for an in-out
referendum.

"I welcome the attention that is being placed on this key pledge that I have
made," he said, hands gripping the side of the lectern. "Only the Conservatives
are making this promise!"

Dave now explained that his "key pledge" would give us a "proper" choice. Ah
yes, "proper". This is one of my Dave alert words. It's an all encompassing
comfort word that he uses to convince people he is right. Expect to hear a lot
of it on Europe.

"Frankly I welcome the attention that is being put on this very clear promise!"
he trilled. OK Dave, I think we have got the idea. It's been a great day - but
only if your name is Nigel.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron adopted the stance of someone who was under attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

I'll be voting to quit the EU;
David Cameron's attempts at renegotiation will be inconsequential: that's why we
must leave, says Nigel Lawson

BYLINE: Nigel Lawson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1952 words


David Cameron has promised that in four years time the British people will be
given the opportunity to decide in a referendum whether this country should
leave the European Union.

To validate this promise, of course, he first needs to win the 2015 general
election, which is by no means assured. But as the British people clearly wish
to be given this choice, it is unlikely that, at the end of the day, the Labour
Party will wish to go into the next election denying it to them. So one way or
another, an in-out referendum is likely to be held. It will be an event of
historic importance.

Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has already embarked on a series of preliminary
talks with our EU partners, hoping in due course to be able to renegotiate
improved terms for the UK within the Union, which he can then put to the people
in a referendum in 2017. We have been here before. He is following faithfully in
the footsteps of Harold Wilson almost 40 years ago. The changes that Wilson was
able to negotiate were so trivial that I doubt if anyone today can remember what
they were. But he was able to secure a 2-1 majority for the "in" vote in the
1975 referendum.

I have no doubt that any changes that Mr Cameron - or, for that matter, Ed
Miliband - is able to secure will be equally inconsequential. The theology of
the acquis communautaire, the principle that any powers ceded by the member
states to the EU are ceded irrevocably, is absolute. It is the rock on which the
Union is built, and - through the so-called Passerelle Clause of the Lisbon
Treaty - effectively an explicit part of the EU constitution. Moreover, to make
exceptions for one member state would inevitably lead to similar demands from
others and threaten a general unravelling.

Some pin their faith on making use of the much-vaunted doctrine of
"subsidiarity". But subsidiarity - pushing decision-making down to the lowest
appropriate level - is something to which the European establishment pays lip
service and then resolutely ignores. The doctrine that "more Europe" must ipso
facto be a good thing is sacrosanct My friends among the eurocracy assure me,
too, that a precondition for any renegotiation would be that we agree to give up
the UK rebate secured with such difficulty by Margaret Thatcher some 30 years
ago. But all this is largely beside the point. The heart of the matter is that
the very nature of the European Union, and of this country's relationship with
it, has fundamentally changed after the coming into being of the European
monetary union and the creation of the eurozone, of which - quite rightly - we
are not a part.

That is why, while I voted "in" in 1975, I shall be voting "out" in 2017.

This has nothing to do with being "anti-European", a particularly bizarre
suggestion in my own case, given that my home nowadays is, by choice, in France
- indeed, in la France profonde - from where I commute weekly to work in
England. The issue is not Europe, with its great history, incomparable culture
and diverse peoples, but the European Union. To confuse the two is both
historically and geographically obtuse.

On the Continent it has always been well understood that the whole purpose of
European integration was political and that economic integration was simply a
means to a political end. In this country that has been much less well
understood, particularly within the business community, which sometimes finds it
hard to grasp that politics can trump economics.

That the objective has always been political does not mean that it is in any way
disreputable. Indeed, the original objective was highly commendable. It was,
bluntly, to eliminate the threat to Europe and the wider world from a
recrudescence of German militarism by placing the German tiger in a European
cage. That objective has been achieved: there is no longer a threat from German
militarism.

That today German influence is increasing peacefully, largely at the expense of
France, as a result of Germany's superior economic performance is not something
to which anyone can legitimately object.

But in the background there has always been another political objective behind
European economic integration, one that is now firmly in the foreground. That is
the creation of a federal European superstate, a United States of Europe. There
is, of course, nothing disreputable about this either. Unlike the first
objective, however, it is, I believe, profoundly misguided. It is certainly not
for us.

As far back as January 1989, as Chancellor and well before the single currency
had come into being, I pointed out (in a major speech at Chatham House) that the
only way that European monetary union could be made to work would be if it were
accompanied by full fiscal union, which in turn required full political union. I
warned that it would therefore be most unwise to go ahead with the project
since, whatever many of their leaders and above all the eurocracy may have
wished, a full-blooded political union was not wanted by the majority of the
peoples of Europe.

Unfortunately, a fundamental contempt for democracy has always been one of the
most striking and least attractive characteristics of the European movement,
however noble its intentions. But that was the clear purpose of the project,
never mind that the lesson of history is that the sequence has to be the
reverse, with political union coming first and monetary union a consequence.

Hence in large part the continuing eurozone disaster and with it continuing
European economic underperformance. But the coming into being of monetary union
- and there can be no doubt of the determination of the leaders of Europe to
persist with it at all costs - has fundamentally changed the nature of the
European Union and of noneurozone Britain's relationship with it. Not only do
our interests increasingly differ from those of the eurozone members but, while
never "at the heart of Europe" (as our political leaders have from time to time
foolishly claimed), we are now becoming increasingly marginalised as we are
doomed to being consistently outvoted by the eurozone bloc.

So the case for exit is clear. But would there be a heavy economic cost, making
this unwise? There would indeed be some economic cost, partly transitional and
partly as a result of the loss of the modest advantages of being within the
single market.

But in my judgment the economic gains would substantially outweigh the costs.
The only gain that can be clearly quantified is that we would no longer pay our
annual membership fee of some £8 billion. That is the size of our annual net
contribution to the EU budget, even after the benefit of the Thatcher rebate
(which Tony Blair, disgracefully and unilaterally agreed - against strong
Treasury advice - gradually to surrender in almost his last act as Prime
Minister).

But there are other, and more important, gains than this. It is widely
recognised throughout Europe that, safely removed from effective democratic
accountability, the EU has become a bureaucratic monstrosity. This imposes
substantial economic costs on all member states. These are perhaps greatest in
the case of the UK, not principally because our own dear bureaucracy is inclined
to goldplate the regulations that emanate from Brussels (although all too often
this occurs), but more because we have a tradition of precision in law-making
and respect for the law that is less pronounced in much, if not most, of the
rest of Europe. That is not going to change, nor should it.

Moreover, there is one area of regulation of particular importance to the UK,
where the EU regulatory cost threatens to be even greater than it is already,
and that is the area of banking and financial services more generally.

Despite the banking disasters of 2007-08, London remains a far more important
financial centre than the rest of Europe put together. It is one of the few
major industries, with substantial growth prospects, where this country is
indisputably a world-class player.

As a member of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards I am well aware
of the need to clean up British banking, and proper supervision and regulation
has to be part of it. But the ultimate purpose is not to cut British banking
down to size but to enable it, shorn of the cultural decadence and scandals that
emerged towards the end of the last century, to flourish globally.

However, after the recent banking meltdown, the EU is currently engaged in a
frenzy of regulatory activism, of which the foolish and damaging financial
transactions tax, imposed against strong UK opposition, is only one example. In
part this is motivated by a jealous desire to cut London down to size, in part
by well-intentioned ignorance.

The Bank of England, now through the Prudential Regulation Authority restored as
the body responsible for the necessary and sensible supervision and regulation
of British banking, is becoming increasingly frustrated by the mandatory
nonsense emanating from Brussels. Escaping from this and reinforcing the escape
by co-operation with the only other genuine world financial centre, the United
States, would be a major economic plus.

Those who claim that to leave the EU would damage the City are the very same as
those who in the past confidently predicted, with a classic failure of
understanding, that the City would be gravely damaged if the UK failed to adopt
the Euro as its currency.

But what of the loss of the advantages of being within the single market? In the
overall scheme of things these are marginal. You do not need to be within the
single market to be able to export to the European Union, as we see from the
wide range of goods on our shelves every day. The statistics are eloquent. Over
the past decade, UK exports to the EU have risen in cash terms by some 40 per
cent. Over the same period, exports to the EU from those outside it have risen
by 75 per cent. The heart of the matter is that the relevant economic context
nowadays is not Europe but globalisation, including global free trade, with the
World Trade Organisation as its monitor.

Indeed, I strongly suspect that there would be a positive economic advantage to
the UK in leaving the single market, quite apart from the more important
economic gains I have already listed. Before we joined the European Common
Market, as the EU was then known, far too much of British business and industry
felt secure in the warm embrace of what was still known as Imperial Preference
and was reluctant to look farther afield. It took entry into the Common Market
to bring about a recognition of the opportunities on our doorstep.

Today too much of British business and industry feels similarly secure in the
warm embrace of the European single market and is failing to recognise that
today's great export opportunities lie in the developing world, particularly in
Asia. Just as entry into the Common Market half a century ago provided a much
needed change of focus, so might leaving the EU, an institution that has
achieved its historic purpose and is now past its sell-by date, provide a
much-needed change of focus today.

There is a saying frequently attributed to the eminent economist John Maynard
Keynes. Charged with having changed his mind about economic policy, he is said
to have replied: "When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?"
It is probably apocryphal, but it accurately encapsulates his approach to
events. It also accurately sums up where I now stand on the issue of UK
membership of the European Union and why I shall vote "out" in 2017 if given the
opportunity to do so.

Lord Lawson of Blaby was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1983-89

It is obtuse to confuse Europe with the EU

There is a jealous desire to cut the City down to size

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher with Lawson in 1988, when he was
Chancellor
TIMES NEWSPAPERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Governments manage change. UKIP fears it;
Anxiety about the modern world is understandable, but people must be helped to
adapt, not encouraged to hide

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1082 words


This year's hit children's film is called The Croods. It tells the story of a
family of Neanderthal cavemen who have to fight against predators and natural
disasters to survive. Grug, the father, warns against exploration and "new
things", telling his children: "You must never not be afraid."

Every night he rolls a rock in front of the entrance to their cave to keep out
the big bad world. But then one night his daughter creeps out and meets a boy
who is playing with a magic light - fire - and everything is turned on its head.

The UK Independence Party is the Crood family of modern Britain and its leader
is like Grug, inviting the voters to stay safe in the cave, cut off from the
dangers outside and protected from modernity. As one senior Tory puts it: "UKIP
are saying: 'Stop the world, I want to get off.' But of course you can't stop
the world and you can't get off."

Nigel Farage and his gang cannot be dismissed as clowns or fruitcakes - although
they are untested and at times eccentric. Nor are they just picking up mid-term
protest votes from the other parties - although they are certainly tapping into
an anti-politics mood. The real appeal of UKIP is much more profound and
emotional. It is about a fear of change.

What UKIP offers is nostalgia. It holds out the prospect of returning to the
Britain of the 1950s (when the country was whiter and less relaxed about
homosexuality). It promises to restore national pride and autonomy and to bring
back grammar schools, fluttering Union Jacks and smoking in pubs. Mr Farage
himself - with his fedora and his fags - embodies a bygone age that exists in
the public imagination, a time before "political correctness went mad".

It is a fantasy, of course, in an age of globalisation and Google. But there is
no doubt that this message resonates in an island nation, particularly in a
recession.

The mainstream political parties are struggling to adjust to the new political
dynamic. The general assumption after last week's local elections is that UKIP
will come top in next year's European elections. Privately Downing Street
strategists are also convinced that the party will win the next by-election that
takes place outside Labour heartlands. Some senior Tories even believe that Mr
Farage would now be an MP had he stood in Eastleigh, the seat vacated by Chris
Huhne earlier this year. "UKIP are here to stay," says one No 10 source.

But the Tory MPs who are urging the Prime Minister to bring forward a referendum
on Europe, or to abandon his plans to legalise gay marriage in order to see off
the UKIP threat are completely missing the point. The Labour MPs and trade union
leaders who are advising Ed Miliband to mirror UKIP by becoming a populist party
of protest on the left are similarly misguided. The appeal of Mr Farage and his
party is not primarily about policies but about culture.

A few months ago Lord Ashcroft, the former Tory party Treasurer, conducted a
comprehensive survey of UKIP supporters and sympathisers. Only a quarter of
these voters put resolving Britain's future relations with the EU among the top
three issues facing the country and only 7 per cent thought it was the single
most important issue.

By contrast, 80 per cent agreed with the proposition "UKIP seems to want to take
Britain back to a time when things were done more sensibly" and 78 per cent
said: "The bigger parties seem more interested in trendy nonsense than in
listening to ordinary people." As Lord Ashcroft wrote in the introduction to his
report, it was "outlook" rather than policy that attracted people to Mr Farage's
party.

The members of his focus groups felt that "Britain is changing for the worse" in
small but significant ways. As the peer reported: "Schools, they say, can't hold
nativity plays or harvest festivals any more; you can't fly a flag of St George
any more; you can't call Christmas 'Christmas'; you won't be promoted in the
police force unless you're from a minority; you can't wear an England shirt on
the bus; you won't get social housing unless you're an immigrant; you can't
speak up about these things because you'll be called a racist; you can't even
smack your children."

The driving force behind UKIP's rise is not anger with Brussels but anxiety
about modernity, as myth and reality merge in people's minds. The Tories will
never deal with this by getting tougher on crime or immigration. Lynton Crosby -
who helped Boris Johnson to victory in multicultural, socially liberal London -
has been convinced that a more sophisticated approach is needed than that
advocated by some right-wingers.

"In Eastleigh, we tested to destruction the idea that we can win by trying to
outbid Nigel Farage," says one strategist. "We had the most UKIP-y possible
candidate and fought the most UKIP-y possible campaign and still couldn't stop
the flow to UKIP."

Mr Cameron is preparing to deal head-on with voters' nervousness about the pace
of change. "We mustn't seem to be insulting or belittling the perfectly decent
people who feel the system hasn't treated them well," says a Downing Street
source.

"But we need to be honest and say that there are no easy answers. It's
incredibly unsettling and difficult, but we have to deal with the world as it
is. We can't just pull up the drawbridge as Nigel Farage suggests."

A Tory minister argues that the Conservatives are best placed to make this
argument. "Our job is to help people to adapt to inexorable change - that was
true when rural communities collapsed and people moved to cities, it was true
with the rise of women after the First World War. The Conservative Party can do
that because it understands and shares the feelings of loss, it doesn't have the
dewy-eyed, bushy-tailed attitude of progressives who just think change is
marvellous and should be accelerated."

All parties have their romantics and their nostalgics - "blue Labour", with its
commitment to "family, faith and flag", is playing on the same instincts as
UKIP. The Tories have always been vulnerable to what David Willetts likes to
call "bring backery". John Major evoked a Britain of long shadows on cricket
grounds, warm beer and old maids bicycling to Holy Communion through the morning
mist.

But there is no going back. Change has to be managed rather than resisted. The
cavemen were terrified when they first played with fire - but then they learnt
to harness its power.

With his fedora and fags, Farage himself embodies a bygone age

In Eastleigh the most UKIP-y Tory candidate couldn't stop the flow

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Lawson: It's time to quit EU;
Former Chancellor says case for exit is clear It's time to quit the EU, Lawson
demands

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,8

LENGTH: 656 words


Lord Lawson, Margaret Thatcher's longest serving Chancellor, calls today for
Britain to leave the European Union.

The peer, writing in The Times, says that the economic gains from a British exit
"would substantially outweigh the costs". The EU had become "a bureaucratic
monstrosity" from which the UK should break free. After an association with
Brussels of 40 years, he said: "The case for exit is clear."

Lord Lawson's intervention will electrify a Tory party reeling from last week's
surge from the Eurosceptic UKIP and is likely to change the dynamic of the
party's inner wranglings over the EU.

Coming from a towering party figure most closely associated with the Thatcher
economic legacy, it will embolden many Tory Eurosceptics to follow suit and call
for Britian to leave.

But it will be hugely unwelcome in No 10, from where David Cameron is hoping to
persuade voters to remain in the EU on new terms he plans to negotiate and put
to a referendum in 2017. Lord Lawson derides the Prime Minister's European
strategy, saying that the outcome is guaranteed to be "inconsequential".

Brussels will never allow Britain significantly improved terms. And a federal
European superstate "is certainly not for us", he said. "That is why, while I
voted 'in' in 1975, I shall be voting 'out' in 2017".

Mr Cameron is hoping to rally business leaders behind a campaign to stay in the
EU on looser terms in the run-up to his promised referendum.

A hallmark of the Prime Minister's case will be that the UK must remain within
the European single market or the country would lose hundreds of thousands of
jobs. Lord Lawson, the longest serving Tory Chancellor of the 20th century,
conceded that there would be "some economic cost", but insisted that the
advantages of the single market were "modest".

Leaving would also deliver a timely wake-up call to business leaders, he said.
Too many were content to be in "the warm embrace of the European single market"
when the great export opportunities lay in the developing world, particulary
Asia.

"The heart of the matter is that the relevant economic context nowadays is not
Europe but globalisation," he said. "I strongly suspect that there would be a
positive economic advantage to the UK in leaving the single market."

Severing Britain's membership of the 27-member European Union would save the
City of London from Brussels's "frenzy of regulatory activism", he said. Last
week's local election gains for UKIP have forced Mr Cameron to offer concessions
to his backbenchers over Europe.

They include a likely vote in this Parliament to enshrine in law his promise of
a future referendum. Tory MPs regard the issue as critical because without it
voters will not believe such a vote will be held.

Mr Cameron is resisting pressure to hold a referendum next spring in which
voters would be asked if they supported a looser relationship with Brussels. The
idea, being pushed by David Davis, the former Shadow Home Secretary, is designed
to strengthen the Prime Minister's negotiating hand.

But both issues will be dwarfed by Lord Lawson's suggestion that the
negotiations between now and 2017 will lead to little change. "We have been here
before," he said.

Harold Wilson negotiated changes in 1975 "so trivial" that no one can remember
them. Any changes secured by Mr Cameron would be equally inconsequential.

There is an irony behind Lord Lawson's urging which will not be lost on the Tory
right. When Chancellor, he fell out with Mrs Thatcher over the European Exchange
Rate Mechanism, which he favoured but which her economic adviser, Sir Alan
Walters, branded "half-baked". Mrs Thatcher never recovered from her
Chancellor's subsequent resignation.

Mr Cameron will try this week to win back the support of women voters with new
rights for carers and a single-tier state pension.

Tomorrow's Queen's Speech will include a social care Bill that gives carers the
same right to support as the person they look after.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I'll be voting to quit the EU;
David Cameron's attempts at renegotiation will be inconsequential: that's why we
must leave, says Nigel Lawson

BYLINE: Nigel Lawson

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1952 words


David Cameron has promised that in four years time the British people will be
given the opportunity to decide in a referendum whether this country should
leave the European Union.

To validate this promise, of course, he first needs to win the 2015 general
election, which is by no means assured. But as the British people clearly wish
to be given this choice, it is unlikely that, at the end of the day, the Labour
Party will wish to go into the next election denying it to them. So one way or
another, an in-out referendum is likely to be held. It will be an event of
historic importance.

Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has already embarked on a series of preliminary
talks with our EU partners, hoping in due course to be able to renegotiate
improved terms for the UK within the Union, which he can then put to the people
in a referendum in 2017. We have been here before. He is following faithfully in
the footsteps of Harold Wilson almost 40 years ago. The changes that Wilson was
able to negotiate were so trivial that I doubt if anyone today can remember what
they were. But he was able to secure a 2-1 majority for the "in" vote in the
1975 referendum.

I have no doubt that any changes that Mr Cameron - or, for that matter, Ed
Miliband - is able to secure will be equally inconsequential. The theology of
the acquis communautaire, the principle that any powers ceded by the member
states to the EU are ceded irrevocably, is absolute. It is the rock on which the
Union is built, and - through the so-called Passerelle Clause of the Lisbon
Treaty - effectively an explicit part of the EU constitution. Moreover, to make
exceptions for one member state would inevitably lead to similar demands from
others and threaten a general unravelling.

Some pin their faith on making use of the much-vaunted doctrine of
"subsidiarity". But subsidiarity - pushing decision-making down to the lowest
appropriate level - is something to which the European establishment pays lip
service and then resolutely ignores. The doctrine that "more Europe" must ipso
facto be a good thing is sacrosanct My friends among the eurocracy assure me,
too, that a precondition for any renegotiation would be that we agree to give up
the UK rebate secured with such difficulty by Margaret Thatcher some 30 years
ago. But all this is largely beside the point. The heart of the matter is that
the very nature of the European Union, and of this country's relationship with
it, has fundamentally changed after the coming into being of the European
monetary union and the creation of the eurozone, of which - quite rightly - we
are not a part.

That is why, while I voted "in" in 1975, I shall be voting "out" in 2017.

This has nothing to do with being "anti-European", a particularly bizarre
suggestion in my own case, given that my home nowadays is, by choice, in France
- indeed, in la France profonde - from where I commute weekly to work in
England. The issue is not Europe, with its great history, incomparable culture
and diverse peoples, but the European Union. To confuse the two is both
historically and geographically obtuse.

On the Continent it has always been well understood that the whole purpose of
European integration was political and that economic integration was simply a
means to a political end. In this country that has been much less well
understood, particularly within the business community, which sometimes finds it
hard to grasp that politics can trump economics.

That the objective has always been political does not mean that it is in any way
disreputable. Indeed, the original objective was highly commendable. It was,
bluntly, to eliminate the threat to Europe and the wider world from a
recrudescence of German militarism by placing the German tiger in a European
cage. That objective has been achieved: there is no longer a threat from German
militarism.

That today German influence is increasing peacefully, largely at the expense of
France, as a result of Germany's superior economic performance is not something
to which anyone can legitimately object.

But in the background there has always been another political objective behind
European economic integration, one that is now firmly in the foreground. That is
the creation of a federal European superstate, a United States of Europe. There
is, of course, nothing disreputable about this either. Unlike the first
objective, however, it is, I believe, profoundly misguided. It is certainly not
for us.

As far back as January 1989, as Chancellor and well before the single currency
had come into being, I pointed out (in a major speech at Chatham House) that the
only way that European monetary union could be made to work would be if it were
accompanied by full fiscal union, which in turn required full political union. I
warned that it would therefore be most unwise to go ahead with the project
since, whatever many of their leaders and above all the eurocracy may have
wished, a full-blooded political union was not wanted by the majority of the
peoples of Europe.

Unfortunately, a fundamental contempt for democracy has always been one of the
most striking and least attractive characteristics of the European movement,
however noble its intentions. But that was the clear purpose of the project,
never mind that the lesson of history is that the sequence has to be the
reverse, with political union coming first and monetary union a consequence.

Hence in large part the continuing eurozone disaster and with it continuing
European economic underperformance. But the coming into being of monetary union
- and there can be no doubt of the determination of the leaders of Europe to
persist with it at all costs - has fundamentally changed the nature of the
European Union and of noneurozone Britain's relationship with it. Not only do
our interests increasingly differ from those of the eurozone members but, while
never "at the heart of Europe" (as our political leaders have from time to time
foolishly claimed), we are now becoming increasingly marginalised as we are
doomed to being consistently outvoted by the eurozone bloc.

So the case for exit is clear. But would there be a heavy economic cost, making
this unwise? There would indeed be some economic cost, partly transitional and
partly as a result of the loss of the modest advantages of being within the
single market.

But in my judgment the economic gains would substantially outweigh the costs.
The only gain that can be clearly quantified is that we would no longer pay our
annual membership fee of some £8 billion. That is the size of our annual net
contribution to the EU budget, even after the benefit of the Thatcher rebate
(which Tony Blair, disgracefully and unilaterally agreed - against strong
Treasury advice - gradually to surrender in almost his last act as Prime
Minister).

But there are other, and more important, gains than this. It is widely
recognised throughout Europe that, safely removed from effective democratic
accountability, the EU has become a bureaucratic monstrosity. This imposes
substantial economic costs on all member states. These are perhaps greatest in
the case of the UK, not principally because our own dear bureaucracy is inclined
to goldplate the regulations that emanate from Brussels (although all too often
this occurs), but more because we have a tradition of precision in law-making
and respect for the law that is less pronounced in much, if not most, of the
rest of Europe. That is not going to change, nor should it.

Moreover, there is one area of regulation of particular importance to the UK,
where the EU regulatory cost threatens to be even greater than it is already,
and that is the area of banking and financial services more generally.

Despite the banking disasters of 2007-08, London remains a far more important
financial centre than the rest of Europe put together. It is one of the few
major industries, with substantial growth prospects, where this country is
indisputably a world-class player.

As a member of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards I am well aware
of the need to clean up British banking, and proper supervision and regulation
has to be part of it. But the ultimate purpose is not to cut British banking
down to size but to enable it, shorn of the cultural decadence and scandals that
emerged towards the end of the last century, to flourish globally.

However, after the recent banking meltdown, the EU is currently engaged in a
frenzy of regulatory activism, of which the foolish and damaging financial
transactions tax, imposed against strong UK opposition, is only one example. In
part this is motivated by a jealous desire to cut London down to size, in part
by well-intentioned ignorance.

The Bank of England, now through the Prudential Regulation Authority restored as
the body responsible for the necessary and sensible supervision and regulation
of British banking, is becoming increasingly frustrated by the mandatory
nonsense emanating from Brussels. Escaping from this and reinforcing the escape
by co-operation with the only other genuine world financial centre, the United
States, would be a major economic plus.

Those who claim that to leave the EU would damage the City are the very same as
those who in the past confidently predicted, with a classic failure of
understanding, that the City would be gravely damaged if the UK failed to adopt
the Euro as its currency.

But what of the loss of the advantages of being within the single market? In the
overall scheme of things these are marginal. You do not need to be within the
single market to be able to export to the European Union, as we see from the
wide range of goods on our shelves every day. The statistics are eloquent. Over
the past decade, UK exports to the EU have risen in cash terms by some 40 per
cent. Over the same period, exports to the EU from those outside it have risen
by 75 per cent. The heart of the matter is that the relevant economic context
nowadays is not Europe but globalisation, including global free trade, with the
World Trade Organisation as its monitor.

Indeed, I strongly suspect that there would be a positive economic advantage to
the UK in leaving the single market, quite apart from the more important
economic gains I have already listed. Before we joined the European Common
Market, as the EU was then known, far too much of British business and industry
felt secure in the warm embrace of what was still known as Imperial Preference
and was reluctant to look farther afield. It took entry into the Common Market
to bring about a recognition of the opportunities on our doorstep.

Today too much of British business and industry feels similarly secure in the
warm embrace of the European single market and is failing to recognise that
today's great export opportunities lie in the developing world, particularly in
Asia. Just as entry into the Common Market half a century ago provided a much
needed change of focus, so might leaving the EU, an institution that has
achieved its historic purpose and is now past its sell-by date, provide a
much-needed change of focus today.

There is a saying frequently attributed to the eminent economist John Maynard
Keynes. Charged with having changed his mind about economic policy, he is said
to have replied: "When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?"
It is probably apocryphal, but it accurately encapsulates his approach to
events. It also accurately sums up where I now stand on the issue of UK
membership of the European Union and why I shall vote "out" in 2017 if given the
opportunity to do so.

Lord Lawson of Blaby was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1983-89

It is obtuse to confuse Europe with the EU

There is a jealous desire to cut the City down to size

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher with Lawson in 1988, when he was
Chancellor
TIMES NEWSPAPERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Governments manage change. UKIP fears it;
Anxiety about the modern world is understandable, but people must be helped to
adapt, not encouraged to hide

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1082 words


This year's hit children's film is called The Croods. It tells the story of a
family of Neanderthal cavemen who have to fight against predators and natural
disasters to survive. Grug, the father, warns against exploration and "new
things", telling his children: "You must never not be afraid."

Every night he rolls a rock in front of the entrance to their cave to keep out
the big bad world. But then one night his daughter creeps out and meets a boy
who is playing with a magic light - fire - and everything is turned on its head.

The UK Independence Party is the Crood family of modern Britain and its leader
is like Grug, inviting the voters to stay safe in the cave, cut off from the
dangers outside and protected from modernity. As one senior Tory puts it: "UKIP
are saying: 'Stop the world, I want to get off.' But of course you can't stop
the world and you can't get off."

Nigel Farage and his gang cannot be dismissed as clowns or fruitcakes - although
they are untested and at times eccentric. Nor are they just picking up mid-term
protest votes from the other parties - although they are certainly tapping into
an anti-politics mood. The real appeal of UKIP is much more profound and
emotional. It is about a fear of change.

What UKIP offers is nostalgia. It holds out the prospect of returning to the
Britain of the 1950s (when the country was whiter and less relaxed about
homosexuality). It promises to restore national pride and autonomy and to bring
back grammar schools, fluttering Union Jacks and smoking in pubs. Mr Farage
himself - with his fedora and his fags - embodies a bygone age that exists in
the public imagination, a time before "political correctness went mad".

It is a fantasy, of course, in an age of globalisation and Google. But there is
no doubt that this message resonates in an island nation, particularly in a
recession.

The mainstream political parties are struggling to adjust to the new political
dynamic. The general assumption after last week's local elections is that UKIP
will come top in next year's European elections. Privately Downing Street
strategists are also convinced that the party will win the next by-election that
takes place outside Labour heartlands. Some senior Tories even believe that Mr
Farage would now be an MP had he stood in Eastleigh, the seat vacated by Chris
Huhne earlier this year. "UKIP are here to stay," says one No 10 source.

But the Tory MPs who are urging the Prime Minister to bring forward a referendum
on Europe, or to abandon his plans to legalise gay marriage in order to see off
the UKIP threat are completely missing the point. The Labour MPs and trade union
leaders who are advising Ed Miliband to mirror UKIP by becoming a populist party
of protest on the left are similarly misguided. The appeal of Mr Farage and his
party is not primarily about policies but about culture.

A few months ago Lord Ashcroft, the former Tory party Treasurer, conducted a
comprehensive survey of UKIP supporters and sympathisers. Only a quarter of
these voters put resolving Britain's future relations with the EU among the top
three issues facing the country and only 7 per cent thought it was the single
most important issue.

By contrast, 80 per cent agreed with the proposition "UKIP seems to want to take
Britain back to a time when things were done more sensibly" and 78 per cent
said: "The bigger parties seem more interested in trendy nonsense than in
listening to ordinary people." As Lord Ashcroft wrote in the introduction to his
report, it was "outlook" rather than policy that attracted people to Mr Farage's
party.

The members of his focus groups felt that "Britain is changing for the worse" in
small but significant ways. As the peer reported: "Schools, they say, can't hold
nativity plays or harvest festivals any more; you can't fly a flag of St George
any more; you can't call Christmas 'Christmas'; you won't be promoted in the
police force unless you're from a minority; you can't wear an England shirt on
the bus; you won't get social housing unless you're an immigrant; you can't
speak up about these things because you'll be called a racist; you can't even
smack your children."

The driving force behind UKIP's rise is not anger with Brussels but anxiety
about modernity, as myth and reality merge in people's minds. The Tories will
never deal with this by getting tougher on crime or immigration. Lynton Crosby -
who helped Boris Johnson to victory in multicultural, socially liberal London -
has been convinced that a more sophisticated approach is needed than that
advocated by some right-wingers.

"In Eastleigh, we tested to destruction the idea that we can win by trying to
outbid Nigel Farage," says one strategist. "We had the most UKIP-y possible
candidate and fought the most UKIP-y possible campaign and still couldn't stop
the flow to UKIP."

Mr Cameron is preparing to deal head-on with voters' nervousness about the pace
of change. "We mustn't seem to be insulting or belittling the perfectly decent
people who feel the system hasn't treated them well," says a Downing Street
source.

"But we need to be honest and say that there are no easy answers. It's
incredibly unsettling and difficult, but we have to deal with the world as it
is. We can't just pull up the drawbridge as Nigel Farage suggests."

A Tory minister argues that the Conservatives are best placed to make this
argument. "Our job is to help people to adapt to inexorable change - that was
true when rural communities collapsed and people moved to cities, it was true
with the rise of women after the First World War. The Conservative Party can do
that because it understands and shares the feelings of loss, it doesn't have the
dewy-eyed, bushy-tailed attitude of progressives who just think change is
marvellous and should be accelerated."

All parties have their romantics and their nostalgics - "blue Labour", with its
commitment to "family, faith and flag", is playing on the same instincts as
UKIP. The Tories have always been vulnerable to what David Willetts likes to
call "bring backery". John Major evoked a Britain of long shadows on cricket
grounds, warm beer and old maids bicycling to Holy Communion through the morning
mist.

But there is no going back. Change has to be managed rather than resisted. The
cavemen were terrified when they first played with fire - but then they learnt
to harness its power.

With his fedora and fags, Farage himself embodies a bygone age

In Eastleigh the most UKIP-y Tory candidate couldn't stop the flow

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lawson: It's time to quit EU;
Former Chancellor says case for exit is clear It's time to quit the EU, Lawson
demands

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,8

LENGTH: 656 words


Lord Lawson, Margaret Thatcher's longest serving Chancellor, calls today for
Britain to leave the European Union.

The peer, writing in The Times, says that the economic gains from a British exit
"would substantially outweigh the costs". The EU had become "a bureaucratic
monstrosity" from which the UK should break free. After an association with
Brussels of 40 years, he said: "The case for exit is clear."

Lord Lawson's intervention will electrify a Tory party reeling from last week's
surge from the Eurosceptic UKIP and is likely to change the dynamic of the
party's inner wranglings over the EU.

Coming from a towering party figure most closely associated with the Thatcher
economic legacy, it will embolden many Tory Eurosceptics to follow suit and call
for Britian to leave.

But it will be hugely unwelcome in No 10, from where David Cameron is hoping to
persuade voters to remain in the EU on new terms he plans to negotiate and put
to a referendum in 2017.

Lord Lawson derides the Prime Minister's European strategy, saying that the
outcome is guaranteed to be "inconsequential".

Brussels will never allow Britain significantly improved terms. And a federal
European superstate "is certainly not for us", he said. "That is why, while I
voted 'in' in 1975, I shall be voting 'out' in 2017".

Mr Cameron is hoping to rally business leaders behind a campaign to stay in the
EU on looser terms in the run-up to his promised referendum.

A hallmark of the Prime Minister's case will be that the UK must remain within
the European single market or the country would lose hundreds of thousands of
jobs. Lord Lawson, the longest serving Tory Chancellor of the 20th century,
conceded that there would be "some economic cost", but insisted that the
advantages of the single market were "modest".

Leaving would also deliver a timely wake-up call to business leaders, he said.
Too many were content to be in "the warm embrace of the European single market"
when the great export opportunities lay in the developing world, particulary
Asia.

"The heart of the matter is that the relevant economic context nowadays is not
Europe but globalisation," he said. "I strongly suspect that there would be a
positive economic advantage to the UK in leaving the single market."

Severing Britain's membership of the 27-member European Union would save the
City of London from Brussels's "frenzy of regulatory activism", he said. Last
week's local election gains for UKIP have forced Mr Cameron to offer concessions
to his backbenchers over Europe.

They include a likely vote in this Parliament to enshrine in law his promise of
a future referendum. Tory MPs regard the issue as critical because without it
voters will not believe such a vote will be held.

Mr Cameron is resisting pressure to hold a referendum next spring in which
voters would be asked if they supported a looser relationship with Brussels. The
idea, being pushed by David Davis, the former Shadow Home Secretary, is designed
to strengthen the Prime Minister's negotiating hand.

But both issues will be dwarfed by Lord Lawson's suggestion that the
negotiations between now and 2017 will lead to little change. "We have been here
before," he said.

Harold Wilson negotiated changes in 1975 "so trivial" that no one can remember
them. Any changes secured by Mr Cameron would be equally inconsequential.

There is an irony behind Lord Lawson's urging which will not be lost on the Tory
right. When Chancellor, he fell out with Mrs Thatcher over the European Exchange
Rate Mechanism, which he favoured but which her economic adviser, Sir Alan
Walters, branded "half-baked". Mrs Thatcher never recovered from her
Chancellor's subsequent resignation.

Mr Cameron will try this week to win back the support of women voters with new
rights for carers and a single-tier state pension.

Tomorrow's Queen's Speech will include a social care Bill that gives carers the
same right to support as the person they look after.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Lawson: It's time to quit EU;
Former Chancellor says case for exit is clear It's time to quit the EU, Lawson
demands

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,8

LENGTH: 659 words


Lord Lawson of Blaby, Margaret Thatcher's longest serving Chancellor, calls
today for Britain to leave the European Union.

The peer, writing in The Times, says that the economic gains from a British exit
"would substantially outweigh the costs". The EU had become "a bureaucratic
monstrosity" from which the UK should break free. After an association with
Brussels of 40 years, he said: "The case for exit is clear."

Lord Lawson's intervention will electrify a Conservative Party reeling from last
week's surge from the Eurosceptic UKIP and is likely to change the dynamic of
the party's inner wranglings over the EU.

Coming from a towering party figure most closely associated with the Thatcher
economic legacy, it will embolden many Tory Eurosceptics to follow suit and call
for Britain to leave.

But it will be hugely unwelcome in No 10, from where David Cameron is hoping to
persuade voters to remain in the EU on new terms he plans to negotiate and put
to a referendum in 2017.

Lord Lawson derides the Prime Minister's European strategy, saying that the
outcome is guaranteed to be "inconsequential".

Brussels will never allow Britain significantly improved terms. And a federal
European superstate "is certainly not for us", he said. "That is why, while I
voted 'in' in 1975, I shall be voting 'out' in 2017".

Mr Cameron is hoping to rally business leaders behind a campaign to stay in the
EU on looser terms in the run-up to his promised referendum.

A hallmark of the Prime Minister's case will be that the UK must remain within
the European single market or the country would lose hundreds of thousands of
jobs. Lord Lawson, the longest serving Tory Chancellor of the 20th century,
conceded that there would be "some economic cost", but insisted that the
advantages of the single market were "modest".

Leaving would also deliver a timely wake-up call to business leaders, he said.
Too many were content to be in "the warm embrace of the European single market"
when the great export opportunities lay in the developing world, particularly
Asia.

"The heart of the matter is that the relevant economic context nowadays is not
Europe but globalisation," he said. "I strongly suspect that there would be a
positive economic advantage to the UK in leaving the single market."

Severing Britain's membership of the 27-member European Union would save the
City of London from Brussels's "frenzy of regulatory activism", he said. Last
week's local election gains for UKIP have forced Mr Cameron to offer concessions
to his backbenchers over Europe.

They include a likely vote in this Parliament to enshrine in law his promise of
a future referendum. Tory MPs regard the issue as critical because without it
voters will not believe such a vote will be held.

Mr Cameron is resisting pressure to hold a referendum next spring in which
voters would be asked if they supported a looser relationship with Brussels. The
idea, being pushed by David Davis, the former Shadow Home Secretary, is designed
to strengthen the Prime Minister's negotiating hand.

But both issues will be dwarfed by Lord Lawson's suggestion that the
negotiations between now and 2017 will lead to little change. "We have been here
before," he said.

Harold Wilson negotiated changes in 1975 "so trivial" that no one could remember
them. Any changes secured by Mr Cameron would be equally inconsequential.

There is an irony behind Lord Lawson's urging which will not be lost on the Tory
Right. When Chancellor, he fell out with Mrs Thatcher over the European Exchange
Rate Mechanism, which he favoured but which her economic adviser, Sir Alan
Walters, branded "half-baked". Mrs Thatcher never recovered from her
Chancellor's subsequent resignation.

Mr Cameron will try this week to win back the support of women voters with new
rights for carers and a single-tier state pension.

Tomorrow's Queen's Speech will include a social care Bill that gives carers the
same right to support as the person they look after.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UKIP is Cameron's Frankenstein monster;
The PM's arrogance created this revolt of the grassroots. Offering a referendum
Bill now is a good way out

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1115 words


Spend most of your time as Tory leader ignoring the issue that matters most to
your activist members: Europe. Launch your bid to be leader by promising to
introduce a tax allowance for married couples and then, once you've won power,
fail to deliver that pledge at four successive Budgets. Tell parents that they
can set up any school they want as long as it's not the one they most want, a
grammar school.

Stop Gordon Brown holding a honeymoon election in 2007 by promising to abolish
inheritance tax but then put it up in office. Spend the general election
campaign talking about an issue that no one understands - the Big Society - and
don't talk about immigration, an issue that three-quarters of voters do care
about. Subsidise expensive renewable energies at a time when families are
struggling to pay their electricity bills.

Form a coalition with the Liberal Democrats even though 80 per cent of your
members want you to lead a minority government. Promise not to reorganise the
NHS, then reorganise it anyway. Oppose press regulation but then embrace it.
Keep pledging to tackle European human rights laws but do nothing when Abu
Qatada proves again and again that Britain is run by inventive lawyers rather
than democratically-drafted laws.

Insist that you want to reach out to northern and poorer parts of Britain but
stuff your Downing Street operation with southern chums who attended the same
elite private schools as you. And, just for good measure, insult people who
normally vote for your party as clowns, fruitcakes and closet racists.

It may have been more accident than deliberate plan, but as an unorthodox
political experiment David Cameron's systematic abuse of his party's most loyal
supporters is delivering predictable and predicted results. The UKIP monster is
Mr Cameron's Frankensteinian creation. It's been an experiment applauded by Mr
Cameron's cheerleaders in the commentariat who regard the average Tory
backbencher with a mixture of disappointment and disgust. These
arithmetically-challenged scribblers give every appearance of wanting to replace
Sun readers with Guardian readers without any awareness that there are many more
of the former.

The calculation, of course, was that centre-right voters would take the kicking
but would have no outlet for their unhappiness. But along came Nigel Farage. The
UKIP leader is proof that moderation of personality can be more important than
moderation of policy. He is the likeable face of some otherwise
easy-to-caricature right-wing policies on Europe and immigration.

Ultimately, it's unlikely that UKIP will win a single MP at the next general
election. It probably won't get much more than 6 or 7 per cent of the vote in
2015 but that may be enough to prevent Mr Cameron from staying in Downing
Street. He won just 36 per cent in 2010, much less than Thatcher, Blair or Major
at their peaks. If he is to remain Prime Minister he cannot afford to lose any
voters to another party, let alone one million or more.

All of this should be enough to cause despair among Tory MPs in marginal seats
but the other, much less reported feature of the local election results was
Labour's underperformance. If Nigel Farage is the right-wing leader of Tory
nightmares then Ed Miliband is the Labour leader of Tory dreams. Labour won a
projected 29 per cent of the national vote in Thursday's elections. In the
middle of a Parliament when the economy is flat on its back and when 59 per cent
of voters disapprove of the coalition, it was a miserable performance.

According to YouGov only 23 per cent think Mr Miliband is providing an effective
opposition to Mr Cameron. Only 24 per cent think it's clear what he stands for
and just 25 per cent think he's up to the job of being prime minister. Voters
are saying the same things now that they said when Mr Miliband was first
elected. They don't think Labour has learnt the lessons from its time in office.
They still think Labour spent too much, borrowed too much, failed to control
welfare bills and presided over uncontrolled immigration.

Labour's weakness means that there's still a real possibility that the
Conservatives can re-emerge as the largest party. Political recovery is built on
three hopes. Modest economic recovery. The potency of the welfare issue. And the
hope that UKIP will fade as an electoral force.

Welfare reform is particularly crucial. Mr Cameron has been a late convert to
the issue's potency and looked awkward when Chris Grayling began a recent
Cabinet meeting with a tribute to Iain Duncan Smith's leadership on the issue.
The Prime Minister was slow to join the banging of the desks. Mr Cameron
recruited IDS to his team but still regards him with suspicion.

IDS, along with his fellow Cabinet ministers Mr Grayling, Michael Gove and Owen
Paterson, realises that the essential mission of reuniting the Right has to
include a credible promise to deliver a referendum on Britain's membership of
the EU. Credible is the important word. Some people in Mr Cameron's inner circle
seemed to think that it was enough to promise an in/out referendum in the next
Parliament in order to woo back Eurosceptic voters. Voters aren't so gullible.
They've heard too many broken promises on Europe to be suckered so easily again.

The referendum issue is as much about trustworthiness as Europe. Mr Cameron's
ratings started sliding, late in the last Parliament, when he abandoned his
"cast-iron" promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. It was perfectly
reasonable for him to argue that there was no point in holding a vote on a
treaty that had already been ratified, but he made no attempt to find other ways
of repatriating powers from Brussels. The Daily Mail concluded that Mr Cameron
reminded them of every other promise-breaking politician.

Mr Cameron can begin to restore voters' trust in him by showing that he, in
turn, trusts them. He may not have a majority in the Commons but that should not
stop him introducing a referendum Bill that, if passed, would guarantee that the
people would soon get to decide whether Britain or Brussels decides the laws
that govern us. If Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs want to vote against that
guarantee - which would be in their power - then let them. Voters would then
know which party leader trusts them and which leaders do not. In an age when
voters regard all politicians as the same, that would be a very good outcome for
Mr Cameron.

If, however, the legislation passes, a central objective of UKIP would have been
delivered and it would have been delivered by David Cameron. It's one of those
rare occasions when the Prime Minister can't lose.

The Tories can't afford to lose one voter, let alone a million of them

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage is the likeable face of some easy-to-caricature right-wing
policies
REUTERS/OLIVIA HARRIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Party of clowns or a genuine political force?;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 793 words


Sir, Surely UKIP should be compared with the Tea Party in America rather than to
the SDP (report, May 4). Both have stumbled on the feeling that conventional
politicians have got their economics all wrong. Conventional politicians have
chased after false gods - particularly that of J. M. Keynes. They have pursued
the Keynesian dream that it is possible for governments to control the economy
by the voodoo of "demand management" - in essence, borrowing money - and as a
result, governments around the world are bankrupt. Both UKIP and the Tea Party
and their supporters sense this - vaguely - and believe that "something should
be done about it".

We are thus seeing a fascinating realignment. Instead of Left versus Right, it
is going to be big government versus small government, Keynesians versus
Austrians, UKIP and the Tea Party versus the rest. And seeing the dreadful mess
that conventional politicians are making of the economy, the sooner we get some
fresh air into politics, the better. andrew selkirk London NW3 Sir, The time has
surely come for the Conservatives to confront head-on the issue which has dogged
the party continuously for over 20 years. It would be folly to dismiss UKIP's
election success as being simply a timely wake-up call or a mere protest vote.
It is the clearest sign yet that the electorate is frustrated, disenchanted,
disenfranchised and inadequately represented on the issue of Britain's
relationship with the EU. The clamour for the promised referendum is now
deafening.

Mr Cameron cannot lead people where they are unwilling to go.

Better he shows the necessary courage to resolve the issue once and for all
before the next election and face up to the consensus than find himself ousted
from office, Labour returned as a result of a split Conservative vote, and the
prospect of no referendum at all.

neil protheroe Kaikoura, New Zealand Sir, Hitherto it was universally assumed
that UKIP would do well at European parliamentary elections and might make
headway at Westminster elections, but could not make much of an impression at
council elections because of the apparent irrelevance of an anti-EU policy to
local government. Yet it is at that grass-roots level that UKIP has broken
through. So how much more successful will they be at the next general and
European elections? vivian linacre Perth Sir, UKIP's modest success at the polls
should not be blown out of proportion. With only about one third of the
electorate voting, UKIP picked up some seats and it's safe to assume that anyone
who wanted to vote UKIP did so; apathy once again ruled the day. However, UKIP
does deserve to be taken seriously. They are not clowns, just the typical pub
bore who knows what's wrong with everything but has no realistic suggestions.

The evidence all over Europe is that spend now, pay later doesn't work. So,
however unpleasant, austerity is the price to be paid. The Conservatives need to
be more robust about making it stick and need to forget gay marriage, cigarette
labelling and drink pricing, and the majority of electors realise it.

Get the economy sorted and the next election will be a no-brainer. colin fuller
Bishop's Cleeve, Glos Sir, Philip Collins (May 3) rightly notes that the overall
share of the combined Conservative and Labour vote has followed a long downward
trend since the peak of the 1950s. However, these votes probably won't translate
to seats in 2015. The decline of the Lib Dems, combined with UKIP winning lots
of votes but few seats (if any), could result in fewer MPs from the smaller
parties, not more. In that sense the general election could herald a shift back
towards two-party politics.

Nevertheless, as a consequence of more diverse voting there could be a stalemate
between the number of Labour and Tory MPs, with no third force to form a
coalition. Would Labour then form a coalition with the SNP? Would the
Conservatives look to Northern Ireland? Perhaps, like 1974, we might end up with
more than one general election. paul hackett Director, Smith Institute Sir, The
outcome of local elections nearly always reflects voters' opinion of the
performance of the national government, with the policies of local candidates
being largely ignored. As a district and county councillor who has fought five
elections, I have always felt that my suitability was of far less consequence to
many electors than the current reputation of my party nationally.

This situation could be rectified. With the coming of fixed-term Parliaments the
dates of general elections are known years in advance. A gradual move towards
synchronising the dates of general and council elections would encourage
electors to base their decision on local policies when voting in the latter.

ronald forrest Lower Milton, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP, led by Nigel Farage, won 139 seats in last week's county council
elections
FACUNDO ARRIZABALAGA / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tories tell Cameron to scrap gay marriage Bill;
Backbenchers fear more desertions to UKIP ; Cameron told to scrap gay marriage
Bill

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 794 words


David Cameron has been told by his own MPs to junk the gay marriage Bill and cut
overseas aid in an effort to halt the UKIP bandwagon.

Tory MPs warned the Prime Minister that he must attend to the party's "home
base" swiftly to prevent more core Conservatives deserting to Nigel Farage. Sir
Gerald Howarth, the former Defence Minister, said that his constituents were
"fed up to the back teeth" with the Government. He challenged Mr Cameron to
adopt a fivepoint plan that encompassed taking Britain out of the European
Convention on Human Rights, doing more to cut immigration, triggering a prompt
EU referendum, freezing the aid budget and scrapping the gay marriage Bill.
Downing Street signalled that Mr Cameron was ready to support a Commons vote in
this Parliament on his promised EU referendum, a key demand from more than 100
Tory MPs.

However, the Prime Minister is wary of calls from senior Tories for a referendum
before 2015, as suggested by David Davis, Bernard Jenkin and John Redwood.

His reluctance will be tested, though, if one of the supporters of the move wins
a plum slot in the ballot for private members Bills when the new session begins
this week.

The pressure on Mr Cameron for a change of course came as Tory MPs digested last
week's advances by UKIP in local elections in which the anti-EU party claimed
almost every fourth vote.

Tory sources said that the changed political landscape would result in UKIP
winning a by-election in anything but a rock-solid Labour seat and that Mr
Farage's party would top the polls in next year's European elections.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, led a team of ministers on to the Sunday
talk shows to stress that the Government would do more to address Continued on
page 4, col 1

Continued from page 1 the concerns of hard-working people who felt let down by
the Government. Mr Hague, Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, and Grant
Shapps, the Tory chairman, all blamed the party's woes on the constraints of
coalition.

But with many Tories nervous about the impact of the UKIP surge on their chances
of holding onto their seats in 2015, MPs made clear that tinkering was not good
enough.

Peter Bone, the Wellingborough MP and coaltion critic, said that Mr Cameron
should halt the gay marriage Bill, currently going through Parliament, and cut
overseas aid. "Those are things that Conservatives want and that's what UKIP
voters want." He said that Tories should be allowed to stand as "Conservative
and UKIP" candidates if they could win the endorsement of Mr Farage's party, he
added.

The focus now shifts to the Queen's Speech on Wednesday. Tighter rules of
residency for EU immigrants and curbs on access to the NHS and other public
services will be trumpeted by Downing Street as proof that Mr Cameron
understands the concerns of ordinary voters. Tories will be moderately cheered
by the absence of a Bill to enshrine in law Mr Cameron's promise to increase aid
spending to the international target of 0.7 per cent of national output.

As he hinted last week, the Prime Minister is ready to support a vote before
2015 that would enshrine in law his promise of an in-out EU referendum before
the end of 2017. The vote is backed by more than 100 Tories as a way of
demonstrating that the promise is not an empty one.

However, Mr Cameron is reluctant to back the "mandate referendum," pushed by Mr
Davis. This would see voters being asked next spring if they supported a looser
relationship with Brussels, empowering the Prime Minister in negotiations and
halting UKIP's momentum before European polls. Yesterday, a triumphant Mr Farage
told jittery Tories that he might help them to retain their seats if they got
rid of Mr Cameron. Laying out terms for a possible Conservative-UKIP pact in
2015, he said: "If David Cameron gets removed and somebody else was put in place
who wanted to come and talk to us and say 'Shall we find an accommodation?',
we'd consider it."

Following controversy about some UKIP candidates, its manifesto and its
appearance as a one-man band, Mr Farage conceded that the party had to change.
"We have got to grow," he said. "But please don't think it's impossible. UKIP is
here to stay."

Godfrey Bloom, a UKIP MEP, said that The Times had misrepresented the party last
week by identifying a £120 billion black hole in its tax and spend policies. It
failed to take account of the fact that UKIP would abolish nearly all quangos,
saving £50 billion a year.

He said that the party would slash aid to countries such as Argentina and China
and to the Indian subcontinent. "If you Google bogus charities, you'll see that
we spend one billion pounds a month on fake charities, which are really
political lobby groups," he said. Tim Montgomerie, Opinion, page 17

Continued from page 1 the [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP is Cameron's Frankenstein monster;
The PM's arrogance created this revolt of the grassroots. Offering a referendum
Bill now is a good way out

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1115 words


Spend most of your time as Tory leader ignoring the issue that matters most to
your activist members: Europe. Launch your bid to be leader by promising to
introduce a tax allowance for married couples and then, once you've won power,
fail to deliver that pledge at four successive Budgets. Tell parents that they
can set up any school they want as long as it's not the one they most want, a
grammar school.

Stop Gordon Brown holding a honeymoon election in 2007 by promising to abolish
inheritance tax but then put it up in office. Spend the general election
campaign talking about an issue that no one understands - the Big Society - and
don't talk about immigration, an issue that three-quarters of voters do care
about. Subsidise expensive renewable energies at a time when families are
struggling to pay their electricity bills.

Form a coalition with the Liberal Democrats even though 80 per cent of your
members want you to lead a minority government. Promise not to reorganise the
NHS, then reorganise it anyway. Oppose press regulation but then embrace it.
Keep pledging to tackle European human rights laws but do nothing when Abu
Qatada proves again and again that Britain is run by inventive lawyers rather
than democratically-drafted laws.

Insist that you want to reach out to northern and poorer parts of Britain but
stuff your Downing Street operation with southern chums who attended the same
elite private schools as you. And, just for good measure, insult people who
normally vote for your party as clowns, fruitcakes and closet racists.

It may have been more accident than deliberate plan, but as an unorthodox
political experiment David Cameron's systematic abuse of his party's most loyal
supporters is delivering predictable and predicted results. The UKIP monster is
Mr Cameron's Frankensteinian creation. It's been an experiment applauded by Mr
Cameron's cheerleaders in the commentariat who regard the average Tory
backbencher with a mixture of disappointment and disgust. These
arithmetically-challenged scribblers give every appearance of wanting to replace
Sun readers with Guardian readers without any awareness that there are many more
of the former.

The calculation, of course, was that centre-right voters would take the kicking
but would have no outlet for their unhappiness. But along came Nigel Farage. The
UKIP leader is proof that moderation of personality can be more important than
moderation of policy. He is the likeable face of some otherwise
easy-to-caricature right-wing policies on Europe and immigration.

Ultimately, it's unlikely that UKIP will win a single MP at the next general
election. It probably won't get much more than 6 or 7 per cent of the vote in
2015 but that may be enough to prevent Mr Cameron from staying in Downing
Street. He won just 36 per cent in 2010, much less than Thatcher, Blair or Major
at their peaks. If he is to remain Prime Minister he cannot afford to lose any
voters to another party, let alone one million or more.

All of this should be enough to cause despair among Tory MPs in marginal seats
but the other, much less reported feature of the local election results was
Labour's underperformance. If Nigel Farage is the right-wing leader of Tory
nightmares then Ed Miliband is the Labour leader of Tory dreams. Labour won a
projected 29 per cent of the national vote in Thursday's elections. In the
middle of a Parliament when the economy is flat on its back and when 59 per cent
of voters disapprove of the coalition, it was a miserable performance.

According to YouGov only 23 per cent think Mr Miliband is providing an effective
opposition to Mr Cameron. Only 24 per cent think it's clear what he stands for
and just 25 per cent think he's up to the job of being prime minister. Voters
are saying the same things now that they said when Mr Miliband was first
elected. They don't think Labour has learnt the lessons from its time in office.
They still think Labour spent too much, borrowed too much, failed to control
welfare bills and presided over uncontrolled immigration.

Labour's weakness means that there's still a real possibility that the
Conservatives can re-emerge as the largest party. Political recovery is built on
three hopes. Modest economic recovery. The potency of the welfare issue. And the
hope that UKIP will fade as an electoral force.

Welfare reform is particularly crucial. Mr Cameron has been a late convert to
the issue's potency and looked awkward when Chris Grayling began a recent
Cabinet meeting with a tribute to Iain Duncan Smith's leadership on the issue.
The Prime Minister was slow to join the banging of the desks. Mr Cameron
recruited IDS to his team but still regards him with suspicion.

IDS, along with his fellow Cabinet ministers Mr Grayling, Michael Gove and Owen
Paterson, realises that the essential mission of reuniting the Right has to
include a credible promise to deliver a referendum on Britain's membership of
the EU. Credible is the important word. Some people in Mr Cameron's inner circle
seemed to think that it was enough to promise an in/out referendum in the next
Parliament in order to woo back Eurosceptic voters. Voters aren't so gullible.
They've heard too many broken promises on Europe to be suckered so easily again.

The referendum issue is as much about trustworthiness as Europe. Mr Cameron's
ratings started sliding, late in the last Parliament, when he abandoned his
"cast-iron" promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. It was perfectly
reasonable for him to argue that there was no point in holding a vote on a
treaty that had already been ratified, but he made no attempt to find other ways
of repatriating powers from Brussels. The Daily Mail concluded that Mr Cameron
reminded them of every other promise-breaking politician.

Mr Cameron can begin to restore voters' trust in him by showing that he, in
turn, trusts them. He may not have a majority in the Commons but that should not
stop him introducing a referendum Bill that, if passed, would guarantee that the
people would soon get to decide whether Britain or Brussels decides the laws
that govern us. If Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs want to vote against that
guarantee - which would be in their power - then let them. Voters would then
know which party leader trusts them and which leaders do not. In an age when
voters regard all politicians as the same, that would be a very good outcome for
Mr Cameron.

If, however, the legislation passes, a central objective of UKIP would have been
delivered and it would have been delivered by David Cameron. It's one of those
rare occasions when the Prime Minister can't lose.

The Tories can't afford to lose one voter, let alone a million of them

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage is the likeable face of some easy-to-caricature right-wing
policies
REUTERS/OLIVIA HARRIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Party of clowns or a genuine political force?;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 793 words


Sir, Surely UKIP should be compared with the Tea Party in America rather than to
the SDP (report, May 4). Both have stumbled on the feeling that conventional
politicians have got their economics all wrong. Conventional politicians have
chased after false gods - particularly that of J. M. Keynes. They have pursued
the Keynesian dream that it is possible for governments to control the economy
by the voodoo of "demand management" - in essence, borrowing money - and as a
result, governments around the world are bankrupt. Both UKIP and the Tea Party
and their supporters sense this - vaguely - and believe that "something should
be done about it".

We are thus seeing a fascinating realignment. Instead of Left versus Right, it
is going to be big government versus small government, Keynesians versus
Austrians, UKIP and the Tea Party versus the rest. And seeing the dreadful mess
that conventional politicians are making of the economy, the sooner we get some
fresh air into politics, the better. andrew selkirk London NW3 Sir, The time has
surely come for the Conservatives to confront head-on the issue which has dogged
the party continuously for over 20 years. It would be folly to dismiss UKIP's
election success as being simply a timely wake-up call or a mere protest vote.
It is the clearest sign yet that the electorate is frustrated, disenchanted,
disenfranchised and inadequately represented on the issue of Britain's
relationship with the EU. The clamour for the promised referendum is now
deafening.

Mr Cameron cannot lead people where they are unwilling to go.

Better he shows the necessary courage to resolve the issue once and for all
before the next election and face up to the consensus than find himself ousted
from office, Labour returned as a result of a split Conservative vote, and the
prospect of no referendum at all.

neil protheroe Kaikoura, New Zealand Sir, Hitherto it was universally assumed
that UKIP would do well at European parliamentary elections and might make
headway at Westminster elections, but could not make much of an impression at
council elections because of the apparent irrelevance of an anti-EU policy to
local government. Yet it is at that grass-roots level that UKIP has broken
through. So how much more successful will they be at the next general and
European elections? vivian linacre Perth Sir, UKIP's modest success at the polls
should not be blown out of proportion. With only about one third of the
electorate voting, UKIP picked up some seats and it's safe to assume that anyone
who wanted to vote UKIP did so; apathy once again ruled the day. However, UKIP
does deserve to be taken seriously. They are not clowns, just the typical pub
bore who knows what's wrong with everything but has no realistic suggestions.

The evidence all over Europe is that spend now, pay later doesn't work. So,
however unpleasant, austerity is the price to be paid. The Conservatives need to
be more robust about making it stick and need to forget gay marriage, cigarette
labelling and drink pricing, and the majority of electors realise it.

Get the economy sorted and the next election will be a no-brainer. colin fuller
Bishop's Cleeve, Glos Sir, Philip Collins (May 3) rightly notes that the overall
share of the combined Conservative and Labour vote has followed a long downward
trend since the peak of the 1950s. However, these votes probably won't translate
to seats in 2015. The decline of the Lib Dems, combined with UKIP winning lots
of votes but few seats (if any), could result in fewer MPs from the smaller
parties, not more. In that sense the general election could herald a shift back
towards two-party politics.

Nevertheless, as a consequence of more diverse voting there could be a stalemate
between the number of Labour and Tory MPs, with no third force to form a
coalition. Would Labour then form a coalition with the SNP? Would the
Conservatives look to Northern Ireland? Perhaps, like 1974, we might end up with
more than one general election. paul hackett Director, Smith Institute Sir, The
outcome of local elections nearly always reflects voters' opinion of the
performance of the national government, with the policies of local candidates
being largely ignored. As a district and county councillor who has fought five
elections, I have always felt that my suitability was of far less consequence to
many electors than the current reputation of my party nationally.

This situation could be rectified. With the coming of fixed-term Parliaments the
dates of general elections are known years in advance. A gradual move towards
synchronising the dates of general and council elections would encourage
electors to base their decision on local policies when voting in the latter.

ronald forrest Lower Milton, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP, led by Nigel Farage, won 139 seats in last week's county council
elections
FACUNDO ARRIZABALAGA / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories tell Cameron to scrap gay marriage Bill;
Backbenchers fear more desertions to UKIP Cameron told to scrap gay marriage
Bill

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 781 words


David Cameron has been told by his own MPs to junk the gay marriage Bill and cut
overseas aid in an effort to halt the UKIP bandwagon.

Tory MPs warned the Prime Minister that he must attend to the party's "home
base" swiftly to prevent more core Conservatives deserting to Nigel Farage. Sir
Gerald Howarth, the former Defence Minister, said that his constituents were
"fed up to the back teeth" with the Government. He challenged Mr Cameron to
adopt a fivepoint plan that encompassed taking Britain out of the European
Convention on Human Rights, doing more to cut immigration, triggering a prompt
EU referendum, freezing the aid budget and scrapping the gay marriage Bill.

Downing Street signalled that Mr Cameron was ready to support a Commons vote in
this Parliament on his promised EU referendum, a key demand from more than 100
Tory MPs.

However, the Prime Minister is wary of calls from senior Tories for a referendum
before 2015, as suggested by David Davis, Bernard Jenkin and John Redwood.

His reluctance will be tested, though, if one of the supporters of the move wins
a plum slot in the ballot for private members Bills when the new session begins
this week.

The pressure on Mr Cameron for a change of course came as Tory MPs digested last
week's advances by UKIP in local elections in which the anti-EU party claimed
almost every fourth vote.

Tory sources said that the changed political landscape would result in UKIP
winning a by-election in anything but a rock-solid Labour seat and that Mr
Farage's party would top the polls in next year's European elections.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, led a team of ministers on to the Sunday
talk shows to stress that the Government would do more to address the concerns
of hard-working people who felt let down by the Government. Mr Hague, Philip
Hammond, the Defence Secretary, and Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, all blamed
the party's woes on the constraints of coalition.

But with many Tories nervous about the impact of the UKIP surge on their chances
of holding onto their seats in 2015, MPs made clear that tinkering was not good
enough.

Peter Bone, the Wellingborough MP and coaltion critic, said that Mr Cameron
should halt the gay marriage Bill, currently going through Parliament, and cut
overseas aid. "Those are things that Conservatives want and that's what UKIP
voters want." He said that Tories should be allowed to stand as "Conservative
and UKIP" candidates if they could win the endorsement of Mr Farage's party, he
added.

The focus now shifts to the Queen's Speech on Wednesday. Tighter rules of
residency for EU immigrants and curbs on access to the NHS and other public
services will be trumpeted by Downing Street as proof that Mr Cameron
understands the concerns of ordinary voters. Tories will be moderately cheered
by the absence of a Bill to enshrine in law Mr Cameron's promise to increase aid
spending to the international target of 0.7 per cent of national output.

As he hinted last week, the Prime Minister is ready to support a vote before
2015 that would enshrine in law his promise of an in-out EU referendum before
the end of 2017. The vote is backed by more than 100 Tories as a way of
demonstrating that the promise is not an empty one.

However, Mr Cameron is reluctant to back the "mandate referendum," pushed by Mr
Davis. This would see voters being asked next spring if they supported a looser
relationship with Brussels, empowering the Prime Minister in negotiations and
halting UKIP's momentum before European polls. Yesterday, a triumphant Mr Farage
told jittery Tories that he might help them to retain their seats if they got
rid of Mr Cameron. Laying out terms for a possible Conservative-UKIP pact in
2015, he said: "If David Cameron gets removed and somebody else was put in place
who wanted to come and talk to us and say 'Shall we find an accommodation?',
we'd consider it."

Following controversy about some UKIP candidates, its manifesto and its
appearance as a one-man band, Mr Farage conceded that the party had to change.
"We have got to grow," he said. "But please don't think it's impossible. UKIP is
here to stay."

Godfrey Bloom, a UKIP MEP, said that The Times had misrepresented the party last
week by identifying a £120 billion black hole in its tax and spend policies. It
failed to take account of the fact that UKIP would abolish nearly all quangos,
saving £50 billion a year.

He said that the party would slash aid to countries such as Argentina and China
and to the Indian subcontinent. "If you Google bogus charities, you'll see that
we spend one billion pounds a month on fake charities, which are really
political lobby groups," he said. Tim Montgomerie, Opinion, page 23

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tories tell Cameron to scrap gay marriage Bill;
Backbenchers fear more desertions to UKIP ; Cameron told to scrap gay marriage
Bill

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words


David Cameron has been told by his own MPs to junk the gay marriage Bill and cut
overseas aid in an effort to halt the UKIP bandwagon.

Tory MPs warned the Prime Minister that he must attend to the party's "home
base" swiftly to prevent more core Conservatives deserting to Nigel Farage. Sir
Gerald Howarth, the former Defence Minister, said that his constituents were
"fed up to the back teeth" with the Government. He challenged Mr Cameron to
adopt a fivepoint plan that encompassed taking Britain out of the European
Convention on Human Rights, doing more to cut immigration, triggering a prompt
EU referendum, freezing the aid budget and scrapping the gay marriage Bill.
Downing Street signalled that Mr Cameron was ready to support a Commons vote in
this Parliament on his promised EU referendum, a key demand from more than 100
Tory MPs.

However, the Prime Minister is wary of calls from senior Tories for a referendum
before 2015, as suggested by David Davis, Bernard Jenkin and John Redwood.

His reluctance will be tested, though, if one of the supporters of the move wins
a plum slot in the ballot for private members Bills when the new session begins
this week.

The pressure on Mr Cameron for a change of course came as Tory MPs digested last
week's advances by UKIP in local elections in which the anti-EU party claimed
almost every fourth vote.

Tory sources said that the changed political landscape would result in UKIP
winning a by-election in anything but a rock-solid Labour seat and that Mr
Farage's party would top the polls in next year's European elections.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, led a team of ministers on to the Sunday
talk shows to stress that the Government would do more to address Continued on
page 4, col 1

Continued from page 1 the concerns of hard-working people who felt let down by
the Government. Mr Hague, Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, and Grant
Shapps, the Tory chairman, all blamed the party's woes on the constraints of
coalition.

But with many Tories nervous about the impact of the UKIP surge on their chances
of holding onto their seats in 2015, MPs made clear that tinkering was not good
enough. Peter Bone, the Wellingborough MP and coaltion critic, said that Mr
Cameron should halt the gay marriage Bill , currently going through Parliament,
and cut overseas aid .

"Those are things that Conservatives want and that's what UKIP voters want." He
said that Tories should be allowed to stand as "Conservative and UKIP"
candidates if they could win the endorsement of Mr Farage's party, he added. The
focus now shifts to the Queen's Speech on Wednesday.

Tighter rules of residency for EU immigrants and curbs on access to the NHS and
other public services will be trumpeted by Downing Street as proof that Mr
Cameron understands the concerns of ordinary voters. Tories will be moderately
cheered by the absence of a Bill to enshrine in law Mr Cameron's promise to
increase aid spending to the international target of 0.7 per cent of national
output. As he hinted last week, the Prime Minister is ready to support a vote
before 2015 that would enshrine in law his promise of an in-out EU referendum
before the end of 2017.

The vote is backed by more than 100 Tories as a way of demonstrating that the
promise is not an empty one. However, Mr Cameron is reluctant to back the
"mandate referendum," pushed by Mr Davis. This would see voters being asked next
spring if they supported a looser relationship with Brussels, empowering the
Prime Minister in negotiations and halting UKIP's momentum before European
polls. Yesterday, a triumphant Mr Farage told jittery Tories that he might help
them to retain their seats if they got rid of Mr Cameron. Laying out terms for a
possible Conservative-UKIP pact in 2015, he said: "If David Cameron gets removed
and somebody else was put in place who wanted to come and talk to us and say
'Shall we find an accommodation?', we'd consider it." Following controversy
about some UKIP candidates, its manifesto and its appearance as a one-man band,
Mr Farage conceded that the party had to change.

"We have got to grow," he said. "But please don't think it's impossible. UKIP is
here to stay." Godfrey Bloom, a UKIP MEP, said that The Times had misrepresented
the party last week by identifying a £120 billion black hole in its tax and
spend policies. It failed to take account of the fact that UKIP would abolish
nearly all quangos, saving £50 billion a year. He said that the party would
slash aid to countries such as Argentina and China and to the Indian
subcontinent. "If you Google bogus charities, you'll see that we spend one
billionpounds a month on fake charities, which are really political lobby
groups," he said. Tim Montgomerie, Opinion, page 23

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

What should the four party leaders do next?;
Writers from across the political spectrum offer advice to David Cameron, Ed
Miliband, Nick Clegg and Nigel Farage

BYLINE: David Cameron; Ed Miliband; Nick Clegg; Nigel Farage

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1944 words


Philip Collins Chief leader writer conservatives ? Do not flinch. Do not pretend
that the electorate has delivered a clear message in a single voice. The
Conservative Party can win in 2015 only if it takes votes from its Left as well
as retains them on its Right. The only way to do that is to be as good a
Government as possible.

If you are a Tory MP certain that the Conservatives should follow where UKIP
leads, do your party a favour and say nothing. It will be the wisest thing you
say.

Concentrate instead on what will count two years from now - the economy and
leadership. Turn your fire on the record of your opponents, remember that
Cameron remains your biggest electoral asset, but encourage him to improve,
which he could do by offering an answer to the question of, beyond fixing the
mess and being relaxed while being PM, what is the point of him.

labour ? Labour people have a five-point plan every time they visit the
bathroom, so ... 1) Start again on the economy. Miliband was caught live on air
scared of his own policy on borrowing. He dared not concede that Labour will
spend more because the image of profligate Labour is a disaster. So talk tough
about the cuts that the party cannot avoid.

2) Reshuffle. The Shadow Cabinet has no presence. Promote the best of the young
and bring back the best of the old.

3) Shift the focus of policy from the economy to welfare and set out how the
contributory principle will come back. 4) Stop being sentimental on public
services and have the courage to admit that austerity means serious reform. 5)
Pick a fight with the more vociferous trade union leaders. Dare them to take
their money away.

lib dems ? The flintiest party in British politics needs to keep on keeping on.
There will in time be a reward that comes from being a party of government. In
an era of no winners, the Lib Dem presence in power will persist. As long as the
party holds its nerve there will be, by 2020, young people complaining that they
have spent all their lives under the Liberal Democrats.

If the Tories swivel right and Labour is lost in the fantasy that there is
fertile ground on the Left, claim the centre. But give it a twist. Select crime
as a priority issue, get a high-profile minister in the Home Office and define a
new liberal stance that is strongly in favour of liberty and unashamedly tough
on criminals. Get back into the debate about industrial policy and lead it.
Better to have Vince Cable moaning about something that might matter.

ukip ? Go to the pub during and after election campaigns but not before. The
UKIP manifesto reads as if it was written after a few pints. It's certainly best
read after a few. The party offers spending on the nation's glory at the same
time as huge tax cuts. Any idea what the UKIP schools policy is? No, neither
have they. The NHS? They are in favour. Probably.

So the first task is to rethink and rewrite the plans. The reward for becoming a
player is closer scrutiny and UKIP needs to plan as if it were about to form a
government. If not, it will be blown away.

Miranda Green Editor of theday.co.uk and former Paddy Ashdown aide ? Pandering
to those in his party who are in a panic about UKIP is a bad tactic and a worse
strategy, but Cameron persists in trying to buy off his own Eurosceptic
backbenchers. It will not work. They are never satisfied, and it makes the PM
look like a weak leader of a bunch of monomaniacs. No more EU referendum talk -
in any case, people are not voting UKIP because of Europe.

Cameron should revisit his successful autumn conference speech about global
competitiveness, upping the volume of the message about what the Government's
reforms are for: the country is in something akin to a gruelling fitness
bootcamp, and the national trainers are forgetting to explain why.

? A terrible cul-de-sac awaits Miliband if he takes the wrong message from
UKIP's inroads into the safe Labour seat of South Shields. He should take the
hint that traditional Labour voters do not like his instinctive defence of the
welfare system - next time he feels that he is about to swerve leftward, he
needs to have a lie down until the urge passes.

It is hard for any party to resolve its internal problems in its first term
after being kicked out of office. But Miliband must stop this semi-Freudian
battle to throw off the influence of Tony Blair - particularly when he seems
unable to rid the front bench of the man who reminds voters of what they now see
as Gordon Brown's profligacy.

? This has been a torrid time for the Liberal Democrats, and Clegg now has the
unglamorous task of doggedly slogging his way to the finishing line. He needs to
hang in there and stop saying sorry; he must be unapologetic about his party's
centrist, socially liberal, pro-European, pro-immigration beliefs.

With Miliband off to the left and Cameron locked in a knife fight with Farage,
there could be a lovely swathe of central territory opening up for his party to
occupy: Lib Dems cannot, maybe ever again, go back to being anti-Establishment
insurgents. But Clegg needs to be careful that the land he's staking out is not
a grassy knoll - there will be a few contemplating assassination as the election
nears, especially if the economy fails to provide any hope for a very
disgruntled electorate.

? Does the UKIP leader have anyone whispering in his ear, "Remember you are
mortal"? Nigel Farage resents his party's success being compared to the Greens'
shock breakthrough in the 1989 Euro-elections, because it failed to translate
into either MPs or a lasting role as challenger. But he needs to ponder the
parallels, lest UKIP meets the same fate: ending up as political background
noise.

He should remember that the "greening" of the mainstream proved pretty
insubstantial. It's clever to start talking about the SDP leading to the birth
of new Labour - Farage is now sounding as if he would be happy to see the Tories
remade in UKIP's image and then retire. But is UKIP disciplined enough to
achieve this, or is he having too much fun being the irritant party? Tim
Montgomerie Opinion editor ? Some people are telling Cameron to ignore UKIP.
These were the same people who told him that UKIP would never break through.
They may have been the people who encouraged him to insult them as fruitcakes.
UKIP-deniers were wrong then and they're wrong now. A good number of voters
won't return to the fold even if Tory HQ succeeds in personalising the next
election as Cameron v Miliband.

A decisive slew of now ex-Tory voters don't believe Cameron means what he now
says about addressing their concerns. He must not abandon his commitments to the
NHS and tax relief for the low paid, but he must also use the next two years to
prove that he's genuine about EU reform and controlling immigration. He must
also stay focused on welfare reform. Few other issues have the potential to woo
both UKIP and Labour floaters.

? Ed Miliband doesn't need to be good to win the next election and that's just
as well because he isn't that good. In fact, he's a terrible liability for
Labour. When he first beat his brother in the Labour leadership contest 22 per
cent of voters thought he would be a good Prime Minister and that number hasn't
improved.

Before the Tories get too excited, however, they need to remember that Labour
can still win a majority with only 35 per cent of the vote. Miliband can either
keep praying that Nigel Farage will keep splitting the centre right, Eurosceptic
vote or he can appoint some people who might reassure voters that Labour is a
grown-up party. Two words keep springing to mind: Alistair Darling.

? The South Shields by-election result was devastating for Clegg. His party won
just 352 votes on Thursday compared to 5,189 at the last election. This setback
was further proof that getting into bed with the Tories has ruined the Lib Dem
brand in the eyes of many northern, urban, Scottish and Welsh voters. The Lib
Dems are certain to lose most of their seats where Labour is the challenger
unless they ditch Clegg. He's the man who put Cameron in power, who enabled the
evil Tories to make even bigger cuts than Margaret Thatcher and who infamously
lied about tuition fees.

Only a new leader like Vince Cable or Tim Farron is going to convince
left-leaning voters to forgive the Lib Dems.

? If all goes to Farage's plan this year won't be UKIP's finest hour: the party
will peak next year in the European elections. The biggest barrier to that
champagne moment is the quality of MEP candidate that UKIP will present to
voters. Farage needs to get rid of all those existing or wannabe MEPs who in any
way appear sexist, homophobic or racist. By adopting a zero tolerance policy on
candidate selection he'll appeal to the moderate voters who like UKIP's agenda
but worry about some of its unsavoury candidates.

Stephan Shakespeare Chief executive of the YouGov polling company ? It's highly
unlikely that the Conservatives can win a majority at the next election, no
matter what they do. But Cameron can hold on to No 10. To do that, he needs to
be realistic about the prospects and not be drawn into a battle with UKIP. On
its favourite ground, UKIP will win, so don't go there.

A prime minister must look like a prime minister: strong, clear and above all
focused on the job. Doing the right thing. Delivering his main goal. The
Government will be judged on plain competence, and that is its current
vulnerability.

Oh, and he must help Clegg. The Lib Dems won't win many seats from the Tories,
but they could lose them to Labour - that would be the real disaster for
Cameron. Only if the Lib Dems hold on to most of their seats can he remain PM.

? Our numbers suggest that Miliband has the largest secure base of support of
all the contenders, and with his current 35 per cent he could be a coalition
prime minister. That means he can stop worrying so much about the people already
backing him and can be bolder to win over the next 10 per cent he needs for a
majority. They are the lost Blairites.

Tony Blair has been most helpful in his advice lately. Miliband should heed his
words: Britain has not moved to the left. The Blairites, the only ones to win an
election for Labour since 1974, succeeded in communicating a credible economic
policy, which is the yawning gap Miliband now needs to fill.

? Advice for Clegg is simple: keep doing what you're doing. That will surprise
some, but all he needs to achieve (and all he can achieve) is to hold on to most
of his seats. If he does that - and remember, the LibDems are very good at
hanging on where they have dug in, as the evidence from Eastleigh and some of
Thursday's results reminds us - he will still be kingmaker.

His current strategy is bang-on: differentiating himself from the bad Tories,
forcing through some legislation that Conservatives really hate. He must do a
bit more of that, and behind closed doors persuade Cameron to help him, as it
serves both their ends.

? Our Times polling yesterday showed that the people UKIP now needs to reach if
it is to grow further are less focused on immigration and Europe but have a
"scourge on you all", anti-Establishment attitude. So Farage needs to keep up
the straight talking on his favourite themes - that's clearly working - but he
should add one or two new ones. Law and order, perhaps, or the NHS, both of
which desperately need a people's champion.

He should learn one thing from the Greens: how to translate thinly spread
support into MPs. Use data from these council elections to identify the places
where UKIP is strongest (Boston, for example) and focus there.

The party must also use its new councillors to build loyalty and establish a
record of substance.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Conservatives are left to lick wounds after 'clowns' trample over their patch

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1391 words


"Send in the clowns!" was the jubilant cry of Nigel Farage yesterday as he
realised that his party was set to trample on coalition turf across the country.
Mr Farage recalled the insults thrown at UKIP and its supporters by Ken Clarke
last weekend. "We have been abused by everybody, the entire Establishment, and
now they are shocked and stunned that we are getting over 25 per cent of the
vote," he said, grinning like a Cheshire cat.

The first signs of the breakthrough came after midnight on Thursday, when the
party stormed into second place at South Shields, pushing the Tories into a poor
third. Even the Monster Loony Raving Party complained that UKIP had stolen their
votes.

As the county council results started trickling in during the early hours
yesterday, all eyes were on the purple party and how far it could go.

Lincolnshire, the first county to declare, set the bar high. UKIP gained 16
seats, pushing the Tories out of control.

The Eurosceptic party had always hoped to capitalise in the Eastern flatlands,
where immigration is becoming an issue. The Tories were held to "Ransome" there
as a mother and two daughters - Sue, Felicity and Elizabeth Ransome became UKIP
councillors. By 7am Mr Farage was ecstatic after significant gains in Essex,
Hampshire and Gloucestershire. The party was only defending 6 seats but had
already won 40 and was predicting a million votes by the end of the day.

"This is a real change in British politics," he told BBC news. The Conservatives
started to become nervous. By now they had lost control of both Lincolnshire and
Gloucestershire - both unexpected results. The media focus was still on UKIP,
but it became clear who the party was damaging most.

John Baron, Tory MP for Basildon and Billericay, said that it was a "wakeup
call" for the Government and urged David Cameron to legislate for an EU
referendum.

Alexis McEvoy, a Tory councillor who had lost to UKIP in Hampshire, warned that
Mr Cameron's regime had been "arrogant and out of touch". She said that the
Tories didn't stand for anything any more and that she did not believe a word Mr
Cameron said.

By 9am Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, was forced on to the airwaves to say
that the party would take the message that people wanted more reform. There was
a sigh of Tory relief later in the morning when the UKIP bounce was checked in
the southwest, where it has traditionally done well. It gained only four seats
in Devon, three in Somerset and one in Dorset.

Somerset was expected to be a key battleground with the possibility that the Lib
Dems would take it from the Tories. As it happened both the coalition parties
lost seats and the Tories kept control by two. The Tories lost eight seats in
Buckinghamshire, and UKIP gained six. Was the anti-HS2 factor having an impact?
At lunchtime Tory county councils started to collapse like a house of cards.
East Sussex fell from Conservative control following seven UKIP wins and three
Labour gains. Ed Miliband rushed to Hastings to enjoy success in the South, but
his party failed to make the inroads he had hoped for.

In Norfolk, the Tories losing 20 councillors and control of the county. UKIP
gained 14 seats, and Labour nine seats.

The Tories lost Witney central and south ward in the Prime Minister's own
constituency before Oxfordshire county fell out of Tory hands.

As the Isle of Wight became the ninth Tory council to fall from their hands, Mr
Cameron had to eat his own words on UKIP. "It is no good insulting a party
people have chosen to vote for. We need to show respect," he said.

Lord Ashcroft, the former Conservative deputy chairman, tweeted:
"Congratulations to the 'clowns' and 'fruitcakes'!! That worked!!".

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats were also haemorrhaging seats all over the
country. As the party was only defending 450 seats it was heading to lose more
than 20 per cent of its county council base, which could have big implications
for 2015. Despite winning the Eastleigh by-election in February, the party lost
7 seats in Hampshire and 10 seats in Bristol, pushing them out of a minority
leadership.

"The Lib Dems are on a journey," said Nick Clegg, from "a party of protest to a
party of Government". He said that UKIP's rise was understandable. "But I don't
think they have the answers to the dilemmas we face as a country."

By teatime on a gloriously sunny day UKIP was again on the march, taking 14
seats in Cambridgeshire and 16 in Kent. The Tories were licking their wounds
having lost a tenth council: Cambridgeshire.

By the end of the day the Tories lost about 330 seats and the Liberal Democrats
106, with Labour gaining 260. Seat results for the three main parties were
largely as expected. But no one anticipated the loss of ten Tory councils,
largely on the back of a UKIP surge. It won 136 seats, nearly three times as
many as predicted.

Labour gained Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire from the Tories but had expected to
win Lancashire and possibly Staffordshire.

For some new councillors the elevation to office was a bit of a shock. Elizabeth
Ransome, 26, said that she was planning to clean-up her foul-mouthed Facebook
page by the end of the day. She also used her page to ask the question: "I no
[sic] this is probably a stupid question but is tuna a real fish like ones that
swim in water?" Others hadn't even realised that they had been elected. UKIP's
first Dorset councillor, Ian Smith, discovered that he had been elected by
e-mail. "I was utterly amazed. I hadn't even properly told my sons I was
standing, said Mr Smith, a retired IT worker.

Where UKIP had the biggest impact cambridgeshire UKIP gain seats 10 Tories lose
7, Lab gain 4, Lib Dems lose 7 New council seats Tories Lib Dems UKIP Lab Others
32 14 12 7 4 Both coalition partners suffered losses as the UKIP surge toppled
the Tories from power and pushed the county into no overall control
buckinghamshire UKIP gain seats 6 Tories lose 8, Lib Dems lose 6 New council
seats Tories UKIP Lib Dems Lab Ind 36 6 5 1 1 Although UKIP only gained six
seats, the Tories and Liberal Democrats were hit equally hard in a county that
has been redrawn after boundary changes hampshire UKIP gain seats 10 Tories lose
6, Lab gain 3, Lib Dems lose 7 New council seats Tories Lib Dems UKIP Lab Ind 45
17 10 42 UKIP won almost 25 per cent of the vote, largely at the expense of the
Tories. This followed its success at the Eastleigh by-election, when it pushed
the Tories into third place west sussex UKIP gain seats 8 Lab gain 3, Lib Dems
lose 10 New council seats Tories UKIP Lib Dems Lab Ind 46 10 8 6 1 Most of the
seats were taken from the Liberal Democrats on a council where the Tories
retained control east sussex UKIP gain seats 7 Tories lose 9, Lab gain 3, Lib
Dems lose 3 New council seats Tories Lib Dems Lab UKIP Ind 2010 7 7 5 UKIP's
gains were partly responsible for pushing the Tories out of control in another
coastal county that has a high number of immigrants essex UKIP gain seats 9
Tories lose 18, Lab gain 7, Lib Dems lose 2 New council seats Tories Lab Lib
Dems UKIP Others 42 999 6 UKIP made significant inroads into a traditional Tory
heartland, pushing nine of their councillors out. The newcomers said that they
hoped to send a message to No 10 from Basildon man kent UKIP gain seats 16
Tories lose 27, Lab gain 10, Lib Dems No change New council seats Tories UKIP
Lab Lib Dems Others 45 17 13 7 2 The Tories were almost pushed out of overall
majority and UKIP are now the second largest party in a county where immigration
looms large lincolnshire UKIP gain seats 16 Tories lose 26, Lab gain 7, Lib Dems
lose 1 New council seats Tories UKIP Lab Ind Lib Dems 36 16 12 10 3 UKIP
deprived the Tories of control and became the second largest party in an area
where immigration is high due to the number of agricultural workers from Eastern
Europe norfolk UKIP gain seats 14 Tories lose 20, Lab gain 9, Lib Dems gain 1
New council seats Tories UKIP Lab Lib Dems Others 40 15 14 10 5 Norfolk is
another coastal county that attracts Eastern Europeans for agricultural and
seaside jobs. UKIP is now the second largest party here, too suffolk UKIP gain
seats 8 Tories lose 16, Lab gain 11, Lib Dems lose 4 New council seats Tories
Lab UKIP Lib Dems Others 39 15 9 7 5 Another success in the East. The clear
patch of UKIP support accross that flank of the country could be difficult to
shift

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Labour's Baroness Royall of Blaisdon at a snooker club in
Gloucestershire
TIM IRELAND / PA
GRAPHIC: FIONA PLUMMER FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron chokes on his words after Farage's feast;
Panic seizes Tories amid fears of Dorries defection ; Cameron chokes on his
words

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 942 words


David Cameron was forced to eat his words last night after UKIP stunned the
establishment with massive electoral gains.

As Nigel Farage's insurgent party attracted almost every fourth vote in county
council elections, the Prime Minister vowed to respect those he had previously
derided as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

The 139 seats seized by UKIP across the country surpassed expectations and
redrew the political map of Britain - for the time being at least - into a
four-party state.

In Westminster, the jolt to Tory morale triggered a feverish response. It
included: ? Senior Tories warning Mr Cameron to bring the MP Nadine Dorries back
into the fold before she defected to UKIP.

? Nirj Deva, an MEP, becoming the first Tory to advocate a Tory-UKIP pact in the
2015 election.

? Michael Gove being forced to dismiss renewed leadership chatter by saying that
the idea of replacing Mr Cameron was "bonkerooney". Ms Dorries, who has not had
the Tory whip returned since appearing on I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of
Here! was at the centre of speculation last night about her future. Although
some Tories suspect that she is about to jump ship, the Mid Bedfordshire MP
said: "I'm a Conservative and I've been a Conservative and hopefully I'll remain
a Conservative." The biggest victims were the Tories, who lost more than 335
councillors and control of 10 county councils, including the Prime Minister's
home county of Oxfordshire. Labour took the biggest share of the vote at 29 per
cent and won 291 seats but failed to make a significant breakthrough in the
South.

The Liberal Democrats received a local election hammering for the third year
running, losing 124 seats and finishing seventh in the South Shields
by-election.

UKIP took 23 per cent of the vote, two points behind the Tories and nine points
ahead of the Lib Dems. Mr Farage hailed the result as "a game changer".

Mr Cameron led a shell-shocked political class in saying that he would "work
really hard" to win back Tory deserters. Asked if he stood by his previous
"fruitcake" description of UKIP supporters, he said: "Look, it's no good
insulting a political party that people have chosen to vote for. We need to show
respect for people who have taken the choice to support this party."

The Tory high command endorsed the idea of Con-UKIP coalitions running county
halls. Prime candidates included Lincolnshire, where the Tories lost overall
control as UKIP went from no seats to 16, and Cambridgshire where a UKIP gain of
ten seats also robbed the Tories of their majority.

Mr Cameron will begin his fightback with next week's Queen's Speech, which will
now be crafted to appeal to just the kind of hard-working people "who want to
get on in life" and who flocked to UKIP. Pride of place will be given to an
immigration Bill, which is expected to tighten residency rules for all EU
citizens and curb access to public services, including the NHS, Continued on
page 6, col 1

Continued from page 1 for all overseas visitors. The new session of Parliament
is not expected to include Bills on issues that have irked Tories, such as
minimum alcohol pricing and plain cigarette packaging. Mr Cameron, who spent
some of the day making phone calls to MPs and senior party figures from his
constituency, presented a pared down, back-to-basics message yesterday. He said
that his focus would be "more to help with the cost of living, more to turn the
economy round, more to get immigration down, to sort out the welfare system".

The election ended a period of stability for Mr Cameron's leadership, in which
the Tories closed ranks after the death of Baroness Thatcher. Senior sources
said that a leadership challenge was unlikely, though the Prime Minister was at
the moment of "maximum danger". The next few months would be the time for
plotters to strike because the aftermath of next year's European elections would
be too late in the parliament.

The UKIP surge also prompted pressure for Mr Cameron to re-think his approach to
the general election. Mr Deva said that the Prime Minister should open talks
with Mr Farage promptly so they could come to a pact whereby UKIP candidates
would stand aside in Tory marginals.

Other Tory MPs were reluctant to talk publicly about electoral deals lest it
looked like a sign of Tory weakness. But they said that the experience of Tories
and UKIP councillors running councils together could lead to informal
arrangements where Tory MPs were not challenged by UKIP.

Tories said that it was inevitable that Mr Cameron would have to follow through
on his hint this week of supporting legislation in this parliament to write his
promise of an in-out EU referendum after the election into law.

The election fallout also threatened the future of televised leadership debates
during the 2015 campaign. The main parties are likely to oppose demands from Mr
Farage to be included. Tories lined up yesterday to criticise Ken Clarke, the
Cabinet Office Minister who dismissed UKIP as "clowns" this week. Nadhim Zahawi,
the MP for Stratford-on-Avon, said: "It was a mistake for Ken Clarke to do that.
You don't win people back by being rude about them." Another MP said: "Ken
Clarke appears to have outlived his political usefulness."

A former member of the National Front was among newly elected UKIP councillors
in Kent. Martyn Heale, the candidate in Ramsgate, said it had been a "bad
decision" to join the National Front in the 1970s. A spokesman said Mr Heale,
62, was allowed to stand because he joined the party in 2003 before the ban on
former extremists. He acted as Mr Farage's election agent during the 2005
general election.

Continued from page 1 for [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage savours his election breakthrough in a Westminster pub
yesterday
OLIVIA HARRIS / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

What should the four party leaders do next?;
Writers from across the political spectrum offer advice to David Cameron, Ed
Miliband, Nick Clegg and Nigel Farage

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1944 words


Philip Collins Chief leader writer conservatives ? Do not flinch. Do not pretend
that the electorate has delivered a clear message in a single voice. The
Conservative Party can win in 2015 only if it takes votes from its Left as well
as retains them on its Right. The only way to do that is to be as good a
Government as possible.

If you are a Tory MP certain that the Conservatives should follow where UKIP
leads, do your party a favour and say nothing. It will be the wisest thing you
say.

Concentrate instead on what will count two years from now - the economy and
leadership. Turn your fire on the record of your opponents, remember that
Cameron remains your biggest electoral asset, but encourage him to improve,
which he could do by offering an answer to the question of, beyond fixing the
mess and being relaxed while being PM, what is the point of him.

labour ? Labour people have a five-point plan every time they visit the
bathroom, so ... 1) Start again on the economy. Miliband was caught live on air
scared of his own policy on borrowing. He dared not concede that Labour will
spend more because the image of profligate Labour is a disaster. So talk tough
about the cuts that the party cannot avoid.

2) Reshuffle. The Shadow Cabinet has no presence. Promote the best of the young
and bring back the best of the old.

3) Shift the focus of policy from the economy to welfare and set out how the
contributory principle will come back. 4) Stop being sentimental on public
services and have the courage to admit that austerity means serious reform. 5)
Pick a fight with the more vociferous trade union leaders. Dare them to take
their money away.

lib dems ? The flintiest party in British politics needs to keep on keeping on.
There will in time be a reward that comes from being a party of government. In
an era of no winners, the Lib Dem presence in power will persist. As long as the
party holds its nerve there will be, by 2020, young people complaining that they
have spent all their lives under the Liberal Democrats.

If the Tories swivel right and Labour is lost in the fantasy that there is
fertile ground on the Left, claim the centre. But give it a twist. Select crime
as a priority issue, get a high-profile minister in the Home Office and define a
new liberal stance that is strongly in favour of liberty and unashamedly tough
on criminals. Get back into the debate about industrial policy and lead it.
Better to have Vince Cable moaning about something that might matter.

ukip ? Go to the pub during and after election campaigns but not before. The
UKIP manifesto reads as if it was written after a few pints. It's certainly best
read after a few. The party offers spending on the nation's glory at the same
time as huge tax cuts. Any idea what the UKIP schools policy is? No, neither
have they. The NHS? They are in favour. Probably.

So the first task is to rethink and rewrite the plans. The reward for becoming a
player is closer scrutiny and UKIP needs to plan as if it were about to form a
government. If not, it will be blown away.

Miranda Green Editor of theday.co.uk and former Paddy Ashdown aide ? Pandering
to those in his party who are in a panic about UKIP is a bad tactic and a worse
strategy, but Cameron persists in trying to buy off his own Eurosceptic
backbenchers. It will not work. They are never satisfied, and it makes the PM
look like a weak leader of a bunch of monomaniacs. No more EU referendum talk -
in any case, people are not voting UKIP because of Europe.

Cameron should revisit his successful autumn conference speech about global
competitiveness, upping the volume of the message about what the Government's
reforms are for: the country is in something akin to a gruelling fitness
bootcamp, and the national trainers are forgetting to explain why.

? A terrible cul-de-sac awaits Miliband if he takes the wrong message from
UKIP's inroads into the safe Labour seat of South Shields. He should take the
hint that traditional Labour voters do not like his instinctive defence of the
welfare system - next time he feels that he is about to swerve leftward, he
needs to have a lie down until the urge passes.

It is hard for any party to resolve its internal problems in its first term
after being kicked out of office. But Miliband must stop this semi-Freudian
battle to throw off the influence of Tony Blair - particularly when he seems
unable to rid the front bench of the man who reminds voters of what they now see
as Gordon Brown's profligacy.

? This has been a torrid time for the Liberal Democrats, and Clegg now has the
unglamorous task of doggedly slogging his way to the finishing line. He needs to
hang in there and stop saying sorry; he must be unapologetic about his party's
centrist, socially liberal, pro-European, pro-immigration beliefs.

With Miliband off to the left and Cameron locked in a knife fight with Farage,
there could be a lovely swathe of central territory opening up for his party to
occupy: Lib Dems cannot, maybe ever again, go back to being anti-Establishment
insurgents. But Clegg needs to be careful that the land he's staking out is not
a grassy knoll - there will be a few contemplating assassination as the election
nears, especially if the economy fails to provide any hope for a very
disgruntled electorate.

? Does the UKIP leader have anyone whispering in his ear, "Remember you are
mortal"? Nigel Farage resents his party's success being compared to the Greens'
shock breakthrough in the 1989 Euro-elections, because it failed to translate
into either MPs or a lasting role as challenger. But he needs to ponder the
parallels, lest UKIP meets the same fate: ending up as political background
noise.

He should remember that the "greening" of the mainstream proved pretty
insubstantial. It's clever to start talking about the SDP leading to the birth
of new Labour - Farage is now sounding as if he would be happy to see the Tories
remade in UKIP's image and then retire. But is UKIP disciplined enough to
achieve this, or is he having too much fun being the irritant party? Tim
Montgomerie Opinion editor ? Some people are telling Cameron to ignore UKIP.
These were the same people who told him that UKIP would never break through.
They may have been the people who encouraged him to insult them as fruitcakes.
UKIP-deniers were wrong then and they're wrong now. A good number of voters
won't return to the fold even if Tory HQ succeeds in personalising the next
election as Cameron v Miliband.

A decisive slew of now ex-Tory voters don't believe Cameron means what he now
says about addressing their concerns. He must not abandon his commitments to the
NHS and tax relief for the low paid, but he must also use the next two years to
prove that he's genuine about EU reform and controlling immigration. He must
also stay focused on welfare reform. Few other issues have the potential to woo
both UKIP and Labour floaters.

? Ed Miliband doesn't need to be good to win the next election and that's just
as well because he isn't that good. In fact, he's a terrible liability for
Labour. When he first beat his brother in the Labour leadership contest 22 per
cent of voters thought he would be a good Prime Minister and that number hasn't
improved.

Before the Tories get too excited, however, they need to remember that Labour
can still win a majority with only 35 per cent of the vote. Miliband can either
keep praying that Nigel Farage will keep splitting the centre right, Eurosceptic
vote or he can appoint some people who might reassure voters that Labour is a
grown-up party. Two words keep springing to mind: Alistair Darling.

? The South Shields by-election result was devastating for Clegg. His party won
just 352 votes on Thursday compared to 5,189 at the last election. This setback
was further proof that getting into bed with the Tories has ruined the Lib Dem
brand in the eyes of many northern, urban, Scottish and Welsh voters. The Lib
Dems are certain to lose most of their seats where Labour is the challenger
unless they ditch Clegg. He's the man who put Cameron in power, who enabled the
evil Tories to make even bigger cuts than Margaret Thatcher and who infamously
lied about tuition fees.

Only a new leader like Vince Cable or Tim Farron is going to convince
left-leaning voters to forgive the Lib Dems.

? If all goes to Farage's plan this year won't be UKIP's finest hour: the party
will peak next year in the European elections. The biggest barrier to that
champagne moment is the quality of MEP candidate that UKIP will present to
voters. Farage needs to get rid of all those existing or wannabe MEPs who in any
way appear sexist, homophobic or racist. By adopting a zero tolerance policy on
candidate selection he'll appeal to the moderate voters who like UKIP's agenda
but worry about some of its unsavoury candidates.

Stephan Shakespeare Chief executive of the YouGov polling company ? It's highly
unlikely that the Conservatives can win a majority at the next election, no
matter what they do. But Cameron can hold on to No 10. To do that, he needs to
be realistic about the prospects and not be drawn into a battle with UKIP. On
its favourite ground, UKIP will win, so don't go there.

A prime minister must look like a prime minister: strong, clear and above all
focused on the job. Doing the right thing. Delivering his main goal. The
Government will be judged on plain competence, and that is its current
vulnerability.

Oh, and he must help Clegg. The Lib Dems won't win many seats from the Tories,
but they could lose them to Labour - that would be the real disaster for
Cameron. Only if the Lib Dems hold on to most of their seats can he remain PM.

? Our numbers suggest that Miliband has the largest secure base of support of
all the contenders, and with his current 35 per cent he could be a coalition
prime minister. That means he can stop worrying so much about the people already
backing him and can be bolder to win over the next 10 per cent he needs for a
majority. They are the lost Blairites.

Tony Blair has been most helpful in his advice lately. Miliband should heed his
words: Britain has not moved to the left. The Blairites, the only ones to win an
election for Labour since 1974, succeeded in communicating a credible economic
policy, which is the yawning gap Miliband now needs to fill.

? Advice for Clegg is simple: keep doing what you're doing. That will surprise
some, but all he needs to achieve (and all he can achieve) is to hold on to most
of his seats. If he does that - and remember, the LibDems are very good at
hanging on where they have dug in, as the evidence from Eastleigh and some of
Thursday's results reminds us - he will still be kingmaker.

His current strategy is bang-on: differentiating himself from the bad Tories,
forcing through some legislation that Conservatives really hate. He must do a
bit more of that, and behind closed doors persuade Cameron to help him, as it
serves both their ends.

? Our Times polling yesterday showed that the people UKIP now needs to reach if
it is to grow further are less focused on immigration and Europe but have a
"scourge on you all", anti-Establishment attitude. So Farage needs to keep up
the straight talking on his favourite themes - that's clearly working - but he
should add one or two new ones. Law and order, perhaps, or the NHS, both of
which desperately need a people's champion.

He should learn one thing from the Greens: how to translate thinly spread
support into MPs. Use data from these council elections to identify the places
where UKIP is strongest (Boston, for example) and focus there.

The party must also use its new councillors to build loyalty and establish a
record of substance.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Philip Collins Chief leader writer
Tim Montgomerie Opinion editor
Miranda Green Editor of theday.co.uk and former Paddy Ashdown
Stephan Shakespeare Chief executive of the YouGov polling company

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron chokes on his words after Farage's feast;
Panic seizes Tories amid fears of Dorries defection Cameron chokes on his words

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 927 words


David Cameron was forced to eat his words last night after UKIP stunned the
establishment with massive electoral gains.

As Nigel Farage's insurgent party attracted almost every fourth vote in county
council elections, the Prime Minister vowed to respect those he had previously
derided as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

The 139 seats seized by UKIP across the country surpassed expectations and
redrew the political map of Britain - for the time being at least - into a
four-party state.

In Westminster, the jolt to Tory morale triggered a feverish response. It
included:

Senior Tories warning Mr Cameron to bring the MP Nadine Dorries back into the
fold before she defected to UKIP.

Nirj Deva, an MEP, becoming the first Tory to advocate a Tory-UKIP pact in the
2015 election.

Michael Gove being forced to dismiss renewed leadership chatter by saying that
the idea of replacing Mr Cameron was "bonkerooney". Ms Dorries, who has not had
the Tory whip returned since appearing on I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of
Here! was at the centre of speculation last night about her future. Although
some Tories suspect that she is about to jump ship, the Mid Bedfordshire MP
said: "I'm a Conservative and I've been a Conservative and hopefully I'll remain
a Conservative." The biggest victims were the Tories, who lost more than 335
councillors and control of 10 county councils, including the Prime Minister's
home county of Oxfordshire. Labour took the biggest share of the vote at 29 per
cent and won 291 seats but failed to make a significant breakthrough in the
South.

The Liberal Democrats received a local election hammering for the third year
running, losing 124 seats and finishing seventh in the South Shields
by-election.

UKIP took 23 per cent of the vote, two points behind the Tories and nine points
ahead of the Lib Dems. Mr Farage hailed the result as "a game changer".

Mr Cameron led a shell-shocked political class in saying that he would "work
really hard" to win back Tory deserters. Asked if he stood by his previous
"fruitcake" description of UKIP supporters, he said: "Look, it's no good
insulting a political party that people have chosen to vote for. We need to show
respect for people who have taken the choice to support this party."

The Tory high command endorsed the idea of Con-UKIP coalitions running county
halls. Prime candidates included Lincolnshire, where the Tories lost overall
control as UKIP went from no seats to 16, and Cambridgshire where a UKIP gain of
ten seats also robbed the Tories of their majority.

Mr Cameron will begin his fightback with next week's Queen's Speech, which will
now be crafted to appeal to just the kind of hard-working people "who want to
get on in life" and who flocked to UKIP. Pride of place will be given to an
immigration Bill, which is expected to tighten residency rules for all EU
citizens and curb access to public services, including the NHS,  for all
overseas visitors. The new session of Parliament is not expected to include
Bills on issues that have irked Tories, such as minimum alcohol pricing and
plain cigarette packaging. Mr Cameron, who spent some of the day making phone
calls to MPs and senior party figures from his constituency, presented a pared
down, back-to-basics message yesterday. He said that his focus would be "more to
help with the cost of living, more to turn the economy round, more to get
immigration down, to sort out the welfare system".

The election ended a period of stability for Mr Cameron's leadership, in which
the Tories closed ranks after the death of Baroness Thatcher. Senior sources
said that a leadership challenge was unlikely, though the Prime Minister was at
the moment of "maximum danger". The next few months would be the time for
plotters to strike because the aftermath of next year's European elections would
be too late in the parliament.

The UKIP surge also prompted pressure for Mr Cameron to re-think his approach to
the general election. Mr Deva said that the Prime Minister should open talks
with Mr Farage promptly so they could come to a pact whereby UKIP candidates
would stand aside in Tory marginals.

Other Tory MPs were reluctant to talk publicly about electoral deals lest it
looked like a sign of Tory weakness. But they said that the experience of Tories
and UKIP councillors running councils together could lead to informal
arrangements where Tory MPs were not challenged by UKIP.

Tories said that it was inevitable that Mr Cameron would have to follow through
on his hint this week of supporting legislation in this parliament to write his
promise of an in-out EU referendum after the election into law.

The election fallout also threatened the future of televised leadership debates
during the 2015 campaign. The main parties are likely to oppose demands from Mr
Farage to be included. Tories lined up yesterday to criticise Ken Clarke, the
Cabinet Office Minister who dismissed UKIP as "clowns" this week. Nadhim Zahawi,
the MP for Stratford-on-Avon, said: "It was a mistake for Ken Clarke to do that.
You don't win people back by being rude about them." Another MP said: "Ken
Clarke appears to have outlived his political usefulness."

A former member of the National Front was among newly elected UKIP councillors
in Kent. Martyn Heale, the candidate in Ramsgate, said it had been a "bad
decision" to join the National Front in the 1970s. A spokesman said Mr Heale,
62, was allowed to stand because he joined the party in 2003 before the ban on
former extremists. He acted as Mr Farage's election agent during the 2005
general election.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage savours his election breakthrough in a Westminster pub
yesterday
OLIVIA HARRIS / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Conservatives are left to lick wounds after 'clowns' trample over their patch

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1498 words


"Send in the clowns!" was the jubilant cry of Nigel Farage yesterday as he
realised that his party was set to trample on coalition turf across the country.
Mr Farage recalled the insults thrown at UKIP and its supporters by Ken Clarke
last weekend. "We have been abused by everybody, the entire Establishment, and
now they are shocked and stunned that we are getting over 25 per cent of the
vote," he said, grinning like a Cheshire cat.

The first signs of the breakthrough came after midnight on Thursday, when the
party stormed into second place at South Shields, pushing the Tories  into a
poor third. Even the Monster Loony Raving Party complained that UKIP had stolen
their votes.

As the county council results started trickling in during the early hours
yesterday, all eyes were on the purple party and how far it could go.

Lincolnshire, the first county to declare, set the bar high. UKIP gained 16
seats, pushing the Tories  out of control.

The Eurosceptic party had always hoped to capitalise in the Eastern flatlands,
where immigration is becoming an issue. The Tories  were held to "Ransome" there
as a mother and two daughters - Sue, Felicity and Elizabeth Ransome became UKIP
councillors. By 7am Mr Farage was ecstatic after significant gains in Essex,
Hampshire and Gloucestershire. The party was only defending 6 seats but had
already won 40 and was predicting a million votes by the end of the day.

"This is a real change in British politics," he told BBC news. The Conservatives
started to become nervous. By now they had lost control of both Lincolnshire and
Gloucestershire - both unexpected results. The media focus was still on UKIP,
but it became clear who the party was damaging most.

John Baron, Tory MP for Basildon and Billericay, said that it was a "wakeup
call" for the Government and urged David Cameron to legislate for an EU
referendum.

Alexis McEvoy, a Tory councillor who had lost to UKIP in Hampshire, warned that
Mr Cameron's regime had been "arrogant and out of touch". She said that the
Tories  didn't stand for anything any more and that she did not believe a word
Mr Cameron said.

By 9am Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, was forced on to the airwaves to say
that the party would take the message that people wanted more reform. There was
a sigh of Tory relief later in the morning when the UKIP bounce was checked in
the southwest, where it has traditionally done well. It gained only four seats
in Devon, three in Somerset and one in Dorset.

Somerset was expected to be a key battleground with the possibility that the Lib
Dems would take it from the Tories. As it happened both the coalition parties
lost seats and the Tories  kept control by two. The Tories  lost eight seats in
Buckinghamshire, and UKIP gained six. Was the anti-HS2 factor having an impact?
At lunchtime Tory county councils started to collapse like a house of cards.
East Sussex fell from Conservative control following seven UKIP wins and three
Labour gains. Ed Miliband rushed to Hastings to enjoy success in the South, but
his party failed to make the inroads he had hoped for.

In Norfolk, the

Tories  losing 20 councillors and control of the county. UKIP gained 14 seats,
and Labour nine seats.

The Tories  lost Witney central and south ward in the Prime Minister's own
constituency before Oxfordshire county fell out of Tory hands.

As the Isle of Wight became the ninth Tory council to fall from their hands, Mr
Cameron had to eat his own words on UKIP. "It is no good insulting a party
people have chosen to vote for. We need to show respect," he said.

Lord Ashcroft, the former Conservative deputy chairman, tweeted:
"Congratulations to the 'clowns' and 'fruitcakes'!! That worked!!".

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats were also haemorrhaging seats all over the
country. As the party was only defending 450 seats it was heading to lose more
than 20 per cent of its county council base, which could have big implications
for 2015. Despite winning the Eastleigh by-election in February, the party lost
7 seats in Hampshire and 10 seats in Bristol, pushing them out of a minority
leadership.

"The Lib Dems are on a journey," said Nick Clegg, from "a party of protest to a
party of Government". He said that UKIP's rise was understandable. "But I don't
think they have the answers to the dilemmas we face as a country."

By teatime on a gloriously sunny day UKIP was again on the march, taking 14
seats in Cambridgeshire and 16 in Kent. The Tories  were licking their wounds
having lost a tenth council: Cambridgeshire.

By the end of the day the Tories  lost about 330 seats and the Liberal Democrats
106, with Labour gaining 260. Seat results for the three main parties were
largely as expected. But no one anticipated the loss of ten Tory councils,
largely on the back of a UKIP surge. It won 136 seats, nearly three times as
many as predicted.

Labour gained Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire from the Tories  but had expected
to win Lancashire and possibly Staffordshire.

For some new councillors the elevation to office was a bit of a shock. Elizabeth
Ransome, 26, said that she was planning to clean-up her foul-mouthed Facebook
page by the end of the day. She also used her page to ask the question: "I no
[sic] this is probably a stupid question but is tuna a real fish like ones that
swim in water?"

Others hadn't even realised that they had been elected. UKIP's first Dorset
councillor, Ian Smith, discovered that he had been elected by e-mail. "I was
utterly amazed. I hadn't even properly told my sons I was standing, said Mr
Smith, a retired IT worker.

Tories  of control and became the second largest party in an area where
immigration is high due to the number of agricultural workers from Eastern
Europe norfolk UKIP gain seats 14

Tories  lose 20, Lab gain 9, Lib Dems gain 1

New council seats

Tories  UKIP Lab Lib Dems Others 40 15 14 10 5 Norfolk is another coastal county
that attracts Eastern Europeans for agricultural and seaside jobs. UKIP is now
the second largest party here, too suffolk UKIP gain seats 8

Tories  lose 16, Lab gain 11, Lib Dems lose 4

New council seats

Tories  Lab UKIP Lib Dems Others 39 15 9 7 5 Another success in the East. The
clear patch of UKIP support accross that flank of the country could be difficult
to shift

Where UKIP had the biggest impact

CAMBRIDGESHIRE

UKIP gain 10 seats

Tories lose 7,

Lab gain 4,

Lib Dems lose 7

New council seats

Tories 32

Lib Dems 14

UKIP  12

Lab  7

Others  4

Both coalition partners suffered losses as the UKIP surge toppled the Tories
from power and pushed the county into no overall control

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE

UKIP gain 6 seats

Tories lose 8,

Lib Dems lose 6

New council seats

Tories  36

UKIP  6

Lib Dems  5

Lab 1

Ind  1

Although UKIP only gained six seats, the Tories  and Liberal Democrats were hit
equally hard in a county that has been redrawn after boundary changes

HAMPSHIRE

UKIP gain 10 seats

Tories  lose 6,

Lab gain 3,

Lib Dems lose 7

New council seats

Tories 45

Lib Dems 17

UKIP 10

Lab  4

Ind  2

UKIP won almost 25 per cent of the vote, largely at the expense of the Tories.
This followed its success at the Eastleigh by-election, when it pushed the
Tories  into third place

WEST SUSSEX

UKIP gain 8 seats

Lab gain 3, Lib Dems lose 10

New council seats

Tories 46

UKIP 10

Lib Dems 8

Lab  6

Ind 1

Most of the seats were taken from the Liberal Democrats on a council where the
Tories  retained control

EAST SUSSEX

UKIP gain 7 seats

Tories  lose 9, Lab gain 3, Lib Dems lose 3

New council seats

Tories 20

Lib Dems 10

Lab 7

UKIP 7

Ind 5

UKIP's gains were partly responsible for pushing the Tories  out of control in
another coastal county that has a high number of immigrants

ESSEX

UKIP gain 9 seats

Tories  lose 18, Lab gain 7, Lib Dems lose 2

New council seats

Tories  42

Lab 9

Lib Dems 9

UKIP 9

Others  6

UKIP made significant inroads into a traditional Tory heartland, pushing nine of
their councillors out. The newcomers said that they hoped to send a message to
No 10 from Basildon man

KENT

UKIP gain 16 seats

Tories  lose 27, Lab gain 10, Lib Dems No change

New council seats

Tories 45

UKIP  17

Lab 13

Lib Dems 7

Others 2

The Tories  were almost pushed out of overall majority and UKIP are now the
second largest party in a county where immigration looms large

LINCOLNSHIRE

UKIP gain 16 seats

Tories  lose 26, Lab gain 7, Lib Dems lose 1

New council seats

Tories 36

UKIP 16

Lab  12

Ind 10

Lib Dems 3

UKIP deprived the UKIP deprived the Tories of control and became the second
largest party in an area where immigration is high due to the number of
agricultural workers from Eastern Europe

NORFOLK

UKIP gain  14 seats

Tories lose 20, Lab gain 9, Lib Dems gain 1

New council seats

Tories 40

UKIP 15

Lab 14

Lib Dems 10

Others 5

Norfolk is another coastal county that attracts Eastern Europeans for
agricultural and seaside jobs. UKIP is now the second largest party here, too

SUFFOLK

UKIP gain 8 seats

Tories lose 16, Lab gain 11, Lib Dems lose 4

New council seats

Tories 39

Lab 15

UKIP 9

Lib Dems 7

Others 5

Another success in the East. The clear patch of UKIP support accross that flank
of the country could be difficult to shift

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Labour's Baroness Royall of Blaisdon at a snooker club in
Gloucestershire
TIM IRELAND / PA
GRAPHIC: FIONA PLUMMER FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Conservatives are left to lick wounds after 'clowns' trample over their patch

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1393 words


"Send in the clowns!" was the jubilant cry of Nigel Farage yesterday as he
realised that his party was set to trample on coalition turf across the country.

Mr Farage recalled the insults thrown at UKIP and its supporters by Ken Clarke
last weekend. "We have been abused by everybody, the entire Establishment, and
now they are shocked and stunned that we are getting over 25 per cent of the
vote," he said, grinning like a Cheshire cat.

The first signs of the breakthrough came after midnight on Thursday, when the
party stormed into second place at South Shields, pushing the Tories into a poor
third. Even the Monster Loony Raving Party complained that UKIP had stolen their
votes.

As the county council results started trickling in during the early hours
yesterday, all eyes were on the purple party and how far it could go.

Lincolnshire, the first county to declare, set the bar high. UKIP gained 16
seats, pushing the Tories out of control. The Eurosceptic party had always hoped
to capitalise in the Eastern flatlands, where immigration is becoming an issue.
The Tories were held to "Ransome" there as a mother and two daughters - Sue,
Felicity and Elizabeth Ransome became UKIP councillors.

By 7am Mr Farage was ecstatic after significant gains in Essex, Hampshire and
Gloucestershire. The party was only defending 6 seats but had already won 40 and
was predicting a million votes by the end of the day.

"This is a real change in British politics," he told BBC news. The Conservatives
started to become nervous. By now they had lost control of both Lincolnshire and
Gloucestershire - both unexpected results. The media focus was still on UKIP,
but it became clear who the party was damaging most.

John Baron, Tory MP for Basildon and Billericay, said that it was a "wakeup
call" for the Government and urged David Cameron to legislate for an EU
referendum.

Alexis McEvoy, a Tory councillor who had lost to UKIP in Hampshire, warned that
Mr Cameron's regime had been "arrogant and out of touch". She said that the
Tories didn't stand for anything any more and that she did not believe a word Mr
Cameron said.

By 9am Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, was forced on to the airwaves to say
that the party would take the message that people wanted more reform.

There was a sigh of Tory relief later in the morning when the UKIP bounce was
checked in the southwest, where it has traditionally done well. It gained only
four seats in Devon, three in Somerset and one in Dorset.

Somerset was expected to be a key battleground with the possibility that the Lib
Dems would take it from the Tories. As it happened both the coalition parties
lost seats and the Tories kept control by two. The Tories lost eight seats in
Buckinghamshire, and UKIP gained six. Was the anti-HS2 factor having an impact?

At lunchtime Tory county councils started to collapse like a house of cards.
East Sussex fell from Conservative control following seven UKIP wins and three
Labour gains. Ed Miliband rushed to Hastings to enjoy success in the South, but
his party failed to make the inroads he had hoped for.

In Norfolk, the Tories losing 20 councillors and control of the county. UKIP
gained 14 seats, and Labour nine seats.

The Tories lost Witney central and south ward in the Prime Minister's own
constituency before Oxfordshire county fell out of Tory hands.

As the Isle of Wight became the ninth Tory council to fall from their hands, Mr
Cameron had to eat his own words on UKIP. "It is no good insulting a party
people have chosen to vote for. We need to show respect," he said.

Lord Ashcroft, the former Conservative deputy chairman, tweeted:
"Congratulations to the 'clowns' and 'fruitcakes'!! That worked!!".

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats were also haemorrhaging seats all over the
country. As the party was only defending 450 seats it was heading to lose more
than 20 per cent of its county council base, which could have big implications
for 2015. Despite winning the Eastleigh by-election in February, the party lost
7 seats in Hampshire and 10 seats in Bristol, pushing them out of a minority
leadership.

"The Lib Dems are on a journey," said Nick Clegg, from "a party of protest to a
party of Government". He said that UKIP's rise was understandable. "But I don't
think they have the answers to the dilemmas we face as a country."

By teatime on a gloriously sunny day UKIP was again on the march, taking 14
seats in Cambridgeshire and 16 in Kent. The Tories were licking their wounds
having lost a tenth council: Cambridgeshire.

By the end of the day the Tories lost about 330 seats and the Liberal Democrats
106, with Labour gaining 260. Seat results for the three main parties were
largely as expected. But no one anticipated the loss of ten Tory councils,
largely on the back of a UKIP surge. It won 136 seats, nearly three times as
many as predicted.

Labour gained Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire from the Tories but had expected to
win Lancashire and possibly Staffordshire.

For some new councillors the elevation to office was a bit of a shock. Elizabeth
Ransome, 26, said that she was planning to clean-up her foul-mouthed Facebook
page by the end of the day. She also used her page to ask the question: "I no
[sic] this is probably a stupid question but is tuna a real fish like ones that
swim in water?"

Others hadn't even realised that they had been elected. UKIP's first Dorset
councillor, Ian Smith, discovered that he had been elected by e-mail. "I was
utterly amazed. I hadn't even properly told my sons I was standing, said Mr
Smith, a retired IT worker.

Where UKIP had the biggest impact

CAMBRIDGESHIRE

UKIP gain 10 seats

Tories lose 7, Lab gain 4, Lib Dems lose 7

New council seats

Tories  32

Lib Dems  14

UKIP  12

Lab  7

Others  4

Both coalition partners suffered losses as the UKIP surge toppled the Tories
from power and pushed the county into no overall control

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE

UKIP gain 6 seats

Tories lose 8, Lab gain 1 Lib Dems lose 6

New council seats

Tories  36

UKIP  6

Lib Dems  5

Lab  1

Ind  1

Although UKIP gained only six seats, the Tories and Liberal Democrats were hit
equally hard in a county that has been redrawn after boundary changes

HAMPSHIRE

UKIP gain

10 seats

Tories lose 6, Lab gain 3, Lib Dems lose 7

New council seats

Tories  45

Lib Dems  17

UKIP  10

Lab  4

Ind  2

UKIP won almost 25 per cent of the vote, largely at the expense of the Tories.
This followed its success at the Eastleigh by-election, when it pushed the
Tories into third place

WEST SUSSEX

UKIP gain 8 seats

Tories lose 2, Lab gain 3, Lib Dems lose 10

New council seats

Tories  36

UKIP  10

Lib Dems  8

Lab  6

Ind  1

Most of the seats were taken from the Liberal Democrats on a council where the
Tories retained control

EAST SUSSEX

UKIP gain 7 seats

Tories lose 9, Lab gain 3, Lib Dems lose 3

New council seats

Tories  20

Lib Dems  10

Lab  7

UKIP  7

Ind 5

UKIP's gains were partly responsible for pushing the Tories out of control in
another coastal county that has a high number of immigrants

ESSEX

UKIP gain 9 seats

Tories lose 18, Lab gain 7, Lib Dems lose 2

New council seats

Tories  42

Lab  9

Lib Dems  9

UKIP  9

Others 6

UKIP made significant inroads into a traditional Tory heartland, pushing nine of
their councillors out. The newcomers said that they hoped to send a message to
No 10 from Basildon man

KENT

UKIP gain 16 seats

Tories lose 27, Lab gain 10, Lib Dems No change

New council seats

Tories  45

UKIP  17

Lab  13

Lib Dems  7

Others  2

The Tories were almost pushed out of overall majority and UKIP are now the
second-largest party in a county where immigration looms large

LINCOLNSHIRE

UKIP gain 16 seats

Tories lose 26, Lab gain 7, Lib Dems lose 1

New council seats

Tories  36

UKIP  16

Lab  12

Ind  10

Lib Dems 3

UKIP deprived the Tories of control and became the second-largest party in an
area where immigration is high because of the number of agricultural workers
from Eastern Europe

NORFOLK

UKIP gain 14 seats

Tories lose 20, Lab gain 9, Lib Dems gain 1

New council seats

Tories  40

UKIP  15

Lab  14

Lib Dems  10

Others 5

Norfolk is another coastal county that attracts Eastern Europeans for
agricultural and seaside jobs. UKIP is now the second-largest party here, too

SUFFOLK

UKIP gain 8 seats

Tories lose 16, Lab gain 11, Lib Dems lose 4

New council seats

Tories  39

Lab  15

UKIP  9

Lib Dems  7

Others  5

Another success in the East. The clear patch of UKIP support across that flank
of the country could be difficult to shift

Conservative

Labour

No overall control

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Labour's Baroness Royall of Blaisdon at a snooker club in
Gloucestershire
TIM IRELAND / PA
GRAPHIC: FIONA PLUMMER FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron chokes on his words after Farage's feast;
Panic seizes Tories amid fears of Dorries defectionCameron chokes on his words

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 927 words


David Cameron was forced to eat his words last night after UKIP stunned the
Establishment with massive electoral gains.

As Nigel Farage's insurgent party attracted almost every fourth vote in county
council elections, the Prime Minister vowed to respect those he had previously
derided as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

The 139 seats seized by UKIP across the country surpassed expectations and
redrew the political map of Britain - for the time being at least - into a
four-party state.

In Westminster, the jolt to Tory morale triggered a feverish response. It
included:

Senior Tories warning Mr Cameron to bring the MP Nadine Dorries back into the
fold before she defected to UKIP.

Nirj Deva, an MEP, becoming the first Tory to advocate a Tory-UKIP pact in the
2015 election.

Michael Gove being forced to dismiss renewed leadership chatter by saying that
the idea of replacing Mr Cameron was "bonkerooney".

Ms Dorries, who has not had the Tory whip returned since appearing on I'm a
Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here! was at the centre of speculation last night
about her future. Although some Tories suspect that she is about to jump ship,
the Mid Bedfordshire MP said: "I'm a Conservative and I've been a Conservative
and hopefully I'll remain a Conservative." The biggest victims were the Tories,
who lost more than 335 councillors and control of 10 county councils, including
the Prime Minister's home county of Oxfordshire. Labour took the biggest share
of the vote at 29 per cent and won 291 seats but failed to make a significant
breakthrough in the South.

The Liberal Democrats received a local election hammering for the third year
running, losing 124 seats and finishing seventh in the South Shields
by-election.

UKIP took 23 per cent of the vote, two points behind the Tories and nine points
ahead of the Lib Dems. Mr Farage hailed the result as "a game changer".

Mr Cameron led a shell-shocked political class in saying that he would "work
really hard" to win back Tory deserters. Asked if he stood by his previous
"fruitcake" description of UKIP supporters, he said: "Look, it's no good
insulting a political party that people have chosen to vote for. We need to show
respect for people who have taken the choice to support this party."

The Tory high command endorsed the idea of Con-UKIP coalitions running county
halls. Prime candidates included Lincolnshire, where the Tories lost overall
control as UKIP went from no seats to 16, and Cambridgeshire where a UKIP gain
of ten seats also robbed the Tories of their majority.

Mr Cameron will begin his fightback with next week's Queen's Speech, which will
now be crafted to appeal to just the kind of hard-working people "who want to
get on in life" and who flocked to UKIP. Pride of place will be given to an
immigration Bill, which is expected to tighten residency rules for all EU
citizens and curb access to public services, including the NHS, for all overseas
visitors. The new session of Parliament is not expected to include Bills on
issues that have irked Tories, such as minimum alcohol pricing and plain
cigarette packaging. Mr Cameron, who spent some of the day making phone calls to
MPs and senior party figures from his constituency, presented a pared-down,
back-to-basics message yesterday. He said that his focus would be "more to help
with the cost of living, more to turn the economy round, more to get immigration
down, to sort out the welfare system".

The election ended a period of stability for Mr Cameron's leadership, in which
the Tories closed ranks after the death of Baroness Thatcher. Senior sources
said that a leadership challenge was unlikely, though the Prime Minister was at
the moment of "maximum danger". The next few months would be the time for
plotters to strike because the aftermath of next year's European elections would
be too late in the parliament.

The UKIP surge also prompted pressure for Mr Cameron to rethink his approach to
the general election. Mr Deva said that the Prime Minister should open talks
with Mr Farage promptly so they could come to a pact whereby UKIP candidates
would stand aside in Tory marginals.

Other Tory MPs were reluctant to talk publicly about electoral deals lest it
looked like a sign of Tory weakness. But they said that the experience of Tories
and UKIP councillors running councils together could lead to informal
arrangements where Tory MPs were not challenged by UKIP.

Tories said it was inevitable that Mr Cameron would have to follow through on
his hint this week of supporting legislation in this parliament to write his
promise of an in-out EU referendum after the election into law.

The election fallout also threatened the future of televised leadership debates
during the 2015 campaign. The main parties are likely to oppose demands from Mr
Farage to be included.

Tories lined up yesterday to criticise Ken Clarke, the Cabinet Office Minister
who dismissed UKIP as "clowns" this week. Nadhim Zahawi, the MP for
Stratford-on-Avon, said: "It was a mistake for Ken Clarke to do that. You don't
win people back by being rude about them." Another MP said: "Ken Clarke appears
to have outlived his political usefulness."

A former member of the National Front was among newly elected UKIP councillors
in Kent. Martyn Heale, the candidate in Ramsgate, said that it had been a "bad
decision" to join the National Front in the 1970s. A spokesman said Mr Heale,
62, was allowed to stand because he joined the party in 2003 before the ban on
former extremists.

He acted as Mr Farage's election agent during the 2005 general election.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage savours his election breakthrough in a Westminster pub
yesterday
OLIVIA HARRIS / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Conservatives are left to lick wounds after 'clowns' trample over their patch

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1398 words


"Send in the clowns!" was the jubilant cry of Nigel Farage yesterday as he
realised that his party was set to trample on coalition turf across the country.
Mr Farage recalled the insults thrown at UKIP and its supporters by Ken Clarke
last weekend. "We have been abused by everybody, the entire Establishment, and
now they are shocked and stunned that we are getting over 25 per cent of the
vote," he said, grinning like a Cheshire cat.

The first signs of the breakthrough came after midnight on Thursday, when the
party stormed into second place at South Shields, pushing the Tories into a poor
third. Even the Monster Loony Raving Party complained that UKIP had stolen their
votes.

As the county council results started trickling in during the early hours
yesterday, all eyes were on the purple party and how far it could go.

Lincolnshire, the first county to declare, set the bar high. UKIP gained 16
seats, pushing the Tories out of control.

The Eurosceptic party had always hoped to capitalise in the Eastern flatlands,
where immigration is becoming an issue. The Tories were held to "Ransome" there
as a mother and two daughters - Sue, Felicity and Elizabeth Ransome became UKIP
councillors. By 7am Mr Farage was ecstatic after significant gains in Essex,
Hampshire and Gloucestershire. The party was ondefending only 6 seats but had
already won 40 and was predicting a million votes by the end of the day.

"This is a real change in British politics," he told BBC News. The Conservatives
started to become nervous. By now they had lost control of both Lincolnshire and
Gloucestershire - both unexpected results. The media focus was still on UKIP,
but it became clear who the party was damaging most.

John Baron, Tory MP for Basildon and Billericay, said that it was a "wakeup
call" for the Government and urged David Cameron to legislate for an EU
referendum.

Alexis McEvoy, a Tory councillor who had lost to UKIP in Hampshire, warned that
Mr Cameron's regime had been "arrogant and out of touch". She said that the
Tories didn't stand for anything any more and that she did not believe a word Mr
Cameron said.

By 9am Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, was forced on to the airwaves to say
that the party would take the message that people wanted more reform. There was
a sigh of Tory relief later in the morning when the UKIP bounce was checked in
the southwest, where it has traditionally done well. It gained only four seats
in Devon, three in Somerset and one in Dorset.

Somerset was expected to be a key battleground with the possibility that the Lib
Dems would take it from the Tories. As it happened both the coalition parties
lost seats and the Tories kept control by two. The Tories lost eight seats in
Buckinghamshire, and UKIP gained six. Was the anti-HS2 factor having an impact?
At lunchtime Tory county councils started to collapse like a house of cards.
East Sussex fell from Conservative control following seven UKIP wins and three
Labour gains. Ed Miliband rushed to Hastings to enjoy success in the South, but
his party failed to make the inroads he had hoped for.

In Norfolk, the Tories losing 20 councillors and control of the county. UKIP
gained 14 seats, and Labour nine seats.

The Tories lost Witney central and south ward in the Prime Minister's own
constituency before Oxfordshire county fell out of Tory hands.

As the Isle of Wight became the ninth Tory council to fall from their hands, Mr
Cameron had to eat his own words on UKIP. "It is no good insulting a party
people have chosen to vote for. We need to show respect," he said.

Lord Ashcroft, the former Conservative deputy chairman, tweeted:
"Congratulations to the 'clowns' and 'fruitcakes'!! That worked!!".

Meanwhile the Liberal Democrats were also haemorrhaging seats all over the
country. As the party was defending only 450 seats it was heading to lose more
than 20 per cent of its county council base, which could have big implications
for 2015. Despite winning the Eastleigh by-election in February, the party lost
7 seats in Hampshire and 10 seats in Bristol, pushing them out of a minority
leadership.

"The Lib Dems are on a journey," said Nick Clegg, from "a party of protest to a
party of Government". He said that UKIP's rise was understandable. "But I don't
think they have the answers to the dilemmas we face as a country."

By teatime on a gloriously sunny day UKIP was again on the march, taking 14
seats in Cambridgeshire and 16 in Kent. The Tories were licking their wounds
having lost a tenth council: Cambridgeshire.

By the end of the day the Tories lost about 330 seats and the Liberal Democrats
106, with Labour gaining 260. Seat results for the three main parties were
largely as expected. But no one anticipated the loss of ten Tory councils,
largely on the back of a UKIP surge. It won 136 seats, nearly three times as
many as predicted.

Labour gained Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire from the Tories but had expected to
win Lancashire and possibly Staffordshire.

For some new councillors the elevation to office was a bit of a shock. Elizabeth
Ransome, 26, said that she was planning to clean-up her foul-mouthed Facebook
page by the end of the day. She also used her page to ask the question: "I no
[sic] this is probably a stupid question but is tuna a real fish like ones that
swim in water?" Others hadn't even realised that they had been elected. UKIP's
first Dorset councillor, Ian Smith, discovered that he had been elected by
e-mail. "I was utterly amazed. I hadn't even properly told my sons I was
standing," said Mr Smith, a retired IT worker.

Where UKIP had the biggest impact cambridgeshire UKIP gain seats 10 Tories lose
7, Lab gain 4, Lib Dems lose 7 New council seats Tories Lib Dems UKIP Lab Others
32 14 12 7 4 Both coalition partners suffered losses as the UKIP surge toppled
the Tories from power and pushed the county into no overall control
buckinghamshire UKIP gain seats 6 Tories lose 8, Lab gain 1 Lib Dems lose 6 New
council seats Tories UKIP Lib Dems Lab Ind 36 6 5 1 1 Although UKIP gained only
six seats, the Tories and Liberal Democrats were hit equally hard in a county
that has been redrawn after boundary changes hampshire UKIP gain seats 10 Tories
lose 6, Lab gain 3, Lib Dems lose 7 New council seats Tories Lib Dems UKIP Lab
Ind 45 17 10 42 UKIP won almost 25 per cent of the vote, largely at the expense
of the Tories. This followed its success at the Eastleigh by-election, when it
pushed the Tories into third place west sussex UKIP gain seats 10 Tories lose 2,
Lab gain 4, Lib Dems lose 13 New council seats Tories UKIP Lib Dems Lab Ind 46
10 8 6 1 Most of the seats were taken from the Liberal Democrats on a council
where the Tories retained control east sussex UKIP gain seats 7 Tories lose 9,
Lab gain 3, Lib Dems lose 3 New council seats Tories Lib Dems Lab UKIP Ind 2010
7 7 5 UKIP's gains were partly responsible for pushing the Tories out of control
in another coastal county that has a high number of immigrants essex UKIP gain
seats 9 Tories lose 18, Lab gain 7, Lib Dems lose 2 New council seats Tories Lab
Lib Dems UKIP Others 42 999 6 UKIP made significant inroads into a traditional
Tory heartland, pushing nine of their councillors out. The newcomers said that
they hoped to send a message to No 10 from Basildon man kent UKIP gain seats 17
Tories lose 27, Lab gain 10, Lib Dems No change New council seats Tories UKIP
Lab Lib Dems Others 45 17 13 7 2 The Tories were almost pushed out of overall
majority and UKIP are now the second-largest party in a county where immigration
looms large lincolnshire UKIP gain seats 16 Tories lose 26, Lab gain 7, Lib Dems
lose 1 New council seats Tories UKIP Lab Ind Lib Dems 36 16 12 10 3 second UKIP
deprived the Tories of control and became the second-largest party in an area
where immigration is high because of the number of agricultural workers from
Eastern Europe norfolk UKIP gain seats 14 Tories lose 20, Lab gain 9, Lib Dems
gain 1 New council seats Tories UKIP Lab Lib Dems Others 40 15 14 10 5 Norfolk
is another coastal county that attracts Eastern Europeans for agricultural and
seaside jobs. UKIP is now the second-largest party here, too suffolk UKIP gain
seats 8 Tories lose 16, Lab gain 11, Lib Dems lose 4 New council seats Tories
Lab UKIP Lib Dems Others 39 15 9 7 5 Another success in the East. The clear
patch of UKIP support across that flank of the country could be difficult to
shift

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Labour's Baroness Royall of Blaisdon at a snooker club in
Gloucestershire
TIM IRELAND / PA
GRAPHIC: FIONA PLUMMER FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Cameron chokes on his words after Farage's feast;
Panic seizes Tories amid fears of Dorries defection ; Cameron chokes on his
words

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 941 words


David Cameron was forced to eat his words last night after UKIP stunned the
Establishment with massive electoral gains.

As Nigel Farage's insurgent party attracted almost every fourth vote in county
council elections, the Prime Minister vowed to respect those he had previously
derided as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

The 139 seats seized by UKIP across the country surpassed expectations and
redrew the political map of Britain - for the time being at least - into a
four-party state. In Westminster, the jolt to Tory morale triggered a feverish
response. It included: ? Senior Tories warning Mr Cameron to bring the MP Nadine
Dorries back into the fold before she defected to UKIP.

? Nirj Deva, an MEP, becoming the first Tory to advocate a Tory-UKIP pact in the
2015 election.

? Michael Gove being forced to dismiss renewed leadership chatter by saying that
the idea of replacing Mr Cameron was "bonkerooney".

Ms Dorries, who has not had the Tory whip returned since appearing on I'm a
Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here! was at the centre of speculation last night
about her future.

Although some Tories suspect that she is about to jump ship, the Mid
Bedfordshire MP said: "I'm a Conservative and I've been a Conservative and
hopefully I'll remain a Conservative." The biggest victims were the Tories, who
lost more than 335 councillors and control of 10 county councils, including the
Prime Minister's home county of Oxfordshire.

Labour took the biggest share of the vote at 29 per cent and won 291 seats but
failed to make a significant breakthrough in the South.

The Liberal Democrats received a local election hammering for the third year
running, losing 124 seats and finishing seventh in the South Shields
by-election.

UKIP took 23 per cent of the vote, two points behind the Tories and nine points
ahead of the Lib Dems. Mr Farage hailed the result as "a game changer".

Mr Cameron led a shell-shocked political class in saying that he would "work
really hard" to win back Tory deserters.

Asked if he stood by his previous "fruitcake" description of UKIP supporters, he
said: "Look, it's no good insulting a political party that people have chosen to
vote for. We need to show respect for people who have taken the choice to
support this party."

The Tory high command endorsed the idea of Con-UKIP coalitions running county
halls. Prime candidates included Lincolnshire, where the Tories lost overall
control as UKIP went from no seats to 16, and Cambridgeshire where a UKIP gain
of ten seats also robbed the Tories of their majority.

Mr Cameron will begin his fightback with next week's Queen's Speech, which will
now be crafted to appeal to just the kind of hard-working people "who want to
get on in life" and who flocked to UKIP. Pride of place will be given to an
immigration Bill, which is expected to tighten residency rules for all EU
citizens and curb access to public services, including the NHS, Continued on
page 6, col 1

Continued from page 1 for all overseas visitors. The new session of Parliament
is not expected to include Bills on issues that have irked Tories, such as
minimum alcohol pricing and plain cigarette packaging. Mr Cameron, who spent
some of the day making phone calls to MPs and senior party figures from his
constituency, presented a pared-down, back-to-basics message yesterday. He said
that his focus would be "more to help with the cost of living, more to turn the
economy round, more to get immigration down, to sort out the welfare system".

The election ended a period of stability for Mr Cameron's leadership, in which
the Tories closed ranks after the death of Baroness Thatcher. Senior sources
said that a leadership challenge was unlikely, though the Prime Minister was at
the moment of "maximum danger". The next few months would be the time for
plotters to strike because the aftermath of next year's European elections would
be too late in the parliament.

The UKIP surge also prompted pressure for Mr Cameron to rethink his approach to
the general election. Mr Deva said that the Prime Minister should open talks
with Mr Farage promptly so they could come to a pact whereby UKIP candidates
would stand aside in Tory marginals.

Other Tory MPs were reluctant to talk publicly about electoral deals lest it
looked like a sign of Tory weakness. But they said that the experience of Tories
and UKIP councillors running councils together could lead to informal
arrangements where Tory MPs were not challenged by UKIP.

Tories said it was inevitable that Mr Cameron would have to follow through on
his hint this week of supporting legislation in this parliament to write his
promise of an in-out EU referendum after the election into law.

The election fallout also threatened the future of televised leadership debates
during the 2015 campaign. The main parties are likely to oppose demands from Mr
Farage to be included. Tories lined up yesterday to criticise Ken Clarke, the
Cabinet Office Minister who dismissed UKIP as "clowns" this week. Nadhim Zahawi,
the MP for Stratford-on-Avon, said: "It was a mistake for Ken Clarke to do that.
You don't win people back by being rude about them." Another MP said: "Ken
Clarke appears to have outlived his political usefulness." A former member of
the National Front was among newly elected UKIP councillors in Kent. Martyn
Heale, the candidate in Ramsgate, said that it had been a "bad decision" to join
the National Front in the 1970s. A spokesman said Mr Heale, 62, was allowed to
stand because he joined the party in 2003 before the ban on former extremists.

He acted as Mr Farage's election agent during the 2005 general election.

Continued from page 1 for [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage savours his election breakthrough in a Westminster pub
yesterday
OLIVIA HARRIS / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 3, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory pain laid bare as voters tell why they are heading for UKIP

BYLINE: Jill Sherman; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 626 words


The Conservatives are losing six times as many voters to UKIP as the Labour
Party, an exclusive poll for The Times suggests.

The latest UKIP surge is proving much more damaging to the Tories than either of
the other main parties, the Times/YouGov analysis shows.

The data looking at polls throughout April also shows that the Liberal Democrats
are losing twice as many voters to the anti-EU party as Labour, with UKIP
replacing them as the protest party nationwide.

Nigel Farage's party is expected to have won dozens of county council seats as
results come in today and the party's share of the vote is likely to rise
sharply - including in the South Shields by-election.

David Cameron has already reacted to the threat by indicating that he might give
MPs an in-out EU referendum before the election, a key policy in UKIP's camaign.
But there will be further pressure to shift to the right if Mr Farage has big
successes today.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, backed yesterday the 100 MPs who have called
for an early referendum and urged Mr Cameron to make a commitment. The mayor
said that voters had become wary of referendum promises, which he said had been
"whisked off the table" in the past. "I'm sure the Prime Minister and the
Government are absolutely sincere in their pledge to have a referendum. It's
going to happen, but maybe just to ram that message home, some legislation would
be a good idea."

The YouGov findings, which will alarm the Tory high command, compare votes cast
in 2010 with voting intentions now and show that for every one Labour voter
switching to UKIP there are six Tories. The analysis shows that of those who
voted Conservative in 2010, 73 per cent would still vote Tory, 6 per cent
Labour, 2 per cent Liberal Democrat and 18 per cent UKIP. Labour's vote is
holding up well, with 88 per cent of those voting for the party in 2010 still
intending to vote the same way, 2 per cent switching to the Liberal Democrats
and 4 per cent going to UKIP. The Lib Dem vote is changing most with 11 per cent
switching to the Tories, 34 per cent going to Labour and 8 per cent going to
UKIP.

The pollsters analysed the voting intentions of almost 30,000 people, of whom
9,287 voted Tory, 7,488 Labour and 6,675 Liberal Democrat in 2010.

But Mr Cameron may be more concerned about related polling data from the past
two days which shows that there is a higher proportion of Tories who are
considering voting UKIP but haven't made their mind up yet than either of the
other two parties. Some 20 per cent of Tories, 16 per cent of Labour voters and
3 per cent of Lib Dems are considering switching to UKIP.

The most recent data also shows that UKIP voters care most about immigration (76
per cent) followed by leaving the EU (59 per cent) . Mr Farage is popular with
UKIP voters because he has a common sense approach, and "speaks my language".
Senior Labour sources were confident that the party would hold on to the South
Shields seat, vacated by David Miliband, the former Foreign Secretary.

But both Labour and UKIP organisers detected a groundswell for Mr Farage's party
during polling. Some were predicting that it would secure more than a quarter of
the votes cast.

"It's been like a carnival there at times for us," a senior UKIP source said.
"We've had people honking and waving at us. It's been really quite something."

It would represent an early election blow for David Cameron. The Conservatives
finished second in the seat at the last election, when UKIP did not contest it.
But there were signs yesterday that the Tories would be pushed into third. A
Labour source said that UKIP could be on course to secure a percentage of
support "in the mid to high 20s". ? YouGov questioned 30,000 voters for The
Times between April 1 and 13

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 3, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory pain laid bare as voters tell why they are heading for UKIP

BYLINE: Jill Sherman; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 626 words


The Conservatives are losing six times as many voters to UKIP as the Labour
Party, an exclusive poll for The Times suggests.

The latest UKIP surge is proving much more damaging to the Tories than either of
the other main parties, the Times/YouGov analysis shows.

The data looking at polls throughout April also shows that the Liberal Democrats
are losing twice as many voters to the anti-EU party as Labour, with UKIP
replacing them as the protest party nationwide.

Nigel Farage's party is expected to have won dozens of county council seats as
results come in today and the party's share of the vote is likely to rise
sharply - including in the South Shields by-election.

David Cameron has already reacted to the threat by indicating that he might give
MPs an in-out EU referendum before the election, a key policy in UKIP's camaign.
But there will be further pressure to shift to the right if Mr Farage has big
successes today.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, backed yesterday the 100 MPs who have called
for an early referendum and urged Mr Cameron to make a commitment. The mayor
said that voters had become wary of referendum promises, which he said had been
"whisked off the table" in the past. "I'm sure the Prime Minister and the
Government are absolutely sincere in their pledge to have a referendum. It's
going to happen, but maybe just to ram that message home, some legislation would
be a good idea."

The YouGov findings, which will alarm the Tory high command, compare votes cast
in 2010 with voting intentions now and show that for every one Labour voter
switching to UKIP there are six Tories. The analysis shows that of those who
voted Conservative in 2010, 73 per cent would still vote Tory, 6 per cent
Labour, 2 per cent Liberal Democrat and 18 per cent UKIP. Labour's vote is
holding up well, with 88 per cent of those voting for the party in 2010 still
intending to vote the same way, 2 per cent switching to the Liberal Democrats
and 4 per cent going to UKIP. The Lib Dem vote is changing most with 11 per cent
switching to the Tories, 34 per cent going to Labour and 8 per cent going to
UKIP.

The pollsters analysed the voting intentions of almost 30,000 people, of whom
9,287 voted Tory, 7,488 Labour and 6,675 Liberal Democrat in 2010.

But Mr Cameron may be more concerned about related polling data from the past
two days which shows that there is a higher proportion of Tories who are
considering voting UKIP but haven't made their mind up yet than either of the
other two parties. Some 20 per cent of Tories, 16 per cent of Labour voters and
3 per cent of Lib Dems are considering switching to UKIP.

The most recent data also shows that UKIP voters care most about immigration (76
per cent) followed by leaving the EU (59 per cent) . Mr Farage is popular with
UKIP voters because he has a common sense approach, and "speaks my language".
Senior Labour sources were confident that the party would hold on to the South
Shields seat, vacated by David Miliband, the former Foreign Secretary.

But both Labour and UKIP organisers detected a groundswell for Mr Farage's party
during polling. Some were predicting that it would secure more than a quarter of
the votes cast.

"It's been like a carnival there at times for us," a senior UKIP source said.
"We've had people honking and waving at us. It's been really quite something."

It would represent an early election blow for David Cameron. The Conservatives
finished second in the seat at the last election, when UKIP did not contest it.
But there were signs yesterday that the Tories would be pushed into third. A
Labour source said that UKIP could be on course to secure a percentage of
support "in the mid to high 20s". ? YouGov questioned 30,000 voters for The
Times between April 1 and 13

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 3, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory pain laid bare as voters tell why they are switching to UKIP

BYLINE: Jill Sherman; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 625 words


The Conservatives are losing six times as many voters to UKIP as the Labour
Party, an exclusive poll for The Times suggests.

The latest UKIP surge is proving much more damaging to the Tories than either of
the other main parties, the Times/YouGov analysis shows.

The data looking at polls throughout April also shows that the Liberal Democrats
are losing twice as many voters to the anti-EU party as Labour, with UKIP
replacing them as the protest party nationwide.

Nigel Farage's party is expected to have won dozens of county council seats as
results come in today and the party's share of the vote is likely to rise
sharply - including in the South Shields by-election.

David Cameron has already reacted to the threat by indicating that he might give
MPs an in-out EU referendum before the election, a key policy in UKIP's
campaign. But there will be further pressure to shift to the right if Mr Farage
has big successes today.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, backed yesterday the 100 MPs who have called
for an early referendum and urged Mr Cameron to make a commitment. The mayor
said that voters had become wary of referendum promises, which he said had been
"whisked off the table" in the past. "I'm sure the Prime Minister and the
Government are absolutely sincere in their pledge to have a referendum. It's
going to happen, but maybe just to ram that message home, some legislation would
be a good idea."

The YouGov findings, which will alarm the Tory high command, compare votes cast
in 2010 with voting intentions now and show that for every one Labour voter
switching to UKIP there are six Tories. The analysis shows that of those who
voted Conservative in 2010, 73 per cent would still vote Tory, 6 per cent
Labour, 2 per cent Liberal Democrat and 18 per cent UKIP.

Labour's vote is holding up well, with 88 per cent of those voting for the party
in 2010 still intending to vote the same way, 2 per cent switching to the
Liberal Democrats and 4 per cent going to UKIP. The Lib Dem vote is changing
most with 11 per cent switching to the Tories, 34 per cent going to Labour and 8
per cent going to UKIP.

The pollsters analysed the voting intentions of almost 30,000 people, of whom
9,287 voted Tory, 7,488 Labour and 6,675 Liberal Democrat in 2010.

But Mr Cameron may be more concerned about related polling data from the past
two days which shows that there is a higher proportion of Tories who are
considering voting UKIP but haven't made their mind up yet than either of the
other two parties. Some 20 per cent of Tories, 16 per cent of Labour voters and
3 per cent of Lib Dems are considering switching to UKIP.

The most recent data also shows that UKIP voters care most about immigration (76
per cent) followed by leaving the EU (59 per cent) .

Mr Farage is popular with UKIP voters because he has a common sense approach,
and "speaks my language". Senior Labour sources were confident that the party
would hold on to the South Shields seat, vacated by David Miliband, the former
Foreign Secretary. But both Labour and UKIP organisers detected a groundswell
for Mr Farage's party during polling. Some were predicting that it would secure
more than a quarter of the votes cast.

"It's been like a carnival there at times for us," a senior UKIP source said.
"We've had people honking and waving at us. It's been really quite something."

It would represent an early election blow for David Cameron. The Conservatives
finished second in the seat at the last election, when UKIP did not contest it.
But there were signs yesterday that the Tories would be pushed into third. A
Labour source said that UKIP could be on course to secure a percentage of
support "in the mid to high 20s".

YouGov questioned 30,000 voters for The Times between April 1 and 30

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 2, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cameron points to early vote on Europe;
UKIP turns heat on Tories in local elections ; Leader hints at referendum vote

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,9

LENGTH: 585 words


David Cameron has shifted ground on Europe hours before the Tories come under
pressure at the polls from UKIP.

The Prime Minister hinted that he might give MPs a vote on an in-out referendum
before the next election. If passed, the vote would enshrine in law his promise
to put the issue of Britain's EU membership to voters before 2017.

Mr Cameron has always held back from giving MPs a pre-election vote on his
proposed referendum. It would split the coalition while enraging pro-European
Tories. But his willingness to entertain the idea is an indication of the
pressure from Nigel Farage's Eurosceptic party and large numbers of his own MPs.
More than 100 Tory MPs have urged him to make such a move as a way of overcoming
scepticism of promised referendums, while undercutting UKIP's appeal.

Downing Street officials said that Jo Johnson, the new head of Mr Cameron's more
politicised No 10 policy unit, would be asked to explore the idea of legislating
in this Parliament to guarantee in law that a referendum would take place on the
Prime Minister's promised timetable.

Tory officials braced the party for the loss of "an enormous number of seats"
when millions of voters go to the polls today in the biggest electoral test of
the year. Some 2,300 seats are being contested in 27 county councils and seven
unitary authorities in England and Wales.

The Tories and Labour were engaged yesterday in competitive "domesday"
expectation management. Labour officials said that the party might fail to win
the biggest share of the vote because of the way today's elections are in areas
dominated by Tory parliamentary seats.

And even as the Office for National Statistics suggested that Britain's
double-dip recession may never have happened, Tory officials said that they were
braced for the loss of "hundreds and hundreds" of seats.

All three main parties are expecting to suffer from defections to UKIP. Even if
the party fails to win more than a few score of seats, their share of the vote
is expected to rise significantly as voters turn against the three main parties.

Mr Cameron made his move yesterday in an interview with BBC Radio 4's The World
At One. Asked about the idea of a Bill to deliver his commitment, he said: "I
think we need to demonstrate absolutely that we are serious about this
referendum. Anything we can do to strengthen that offer I am prepared to
consider."

His change of tack reflects the influence of John Hayes, the minister recently
appointed by Mr Cameron to liaise with backbench MPs, who is sympathetic to the
idea. However, the Continued on page 9, col 3

Continued from page 1 voters turn against the three establishment parties.

Mr Cameron made his move yesterday in an interview with BBC Radio 4's The World
At One. Asked about the idea of a Bill to deliver his commitment, he said: "I
think we need to demonstrate absolutely that we are serious about this
referendum. Anything we can do to strengthen that offer I am prepared to
consider." His change of tack reflects the influence of John Hayes, the minister
recently appointed by Mr Cameron to liaise with backbench MPs, who is
sympathetic to the idea.

However, the comments will alarm many Tory MPs who believe the tactic is flawed
on two counts - Mr Cameron would probably lose the vote, given that it would be
likely to be opposed by the Liberal Democrats and Labour; if it did succeed, it
would rob the Tories of the promised referendum, one of their unique offers to
voters at the 2015 election.

Continued from page 1 voters [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 2, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP is more than a protest vote - we stand for something

BYLINE: Diane James

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 449 words


The accusations eddy around. According to Hugo Rifkind in his column this week,
UKIP is guilty of being simplistic in a complex world. And a leading article the
day before suggested that our sums don't add up. That's UKIP for you -
disorganised, inchoate, incoherent. So why on earth are voters flocking to us
when they really ought to be voting for the devils they know?

The appeal is really rather simple. We are straightforward, not simplistic, and
we are very serious about what we do, even though we are not slavishly
on-message. Being slightly rough around the edges and not straight from central
casting is something to be proud of. It is also something that in this week of
revelation and allegation about various UKIP local election candidates, the
ordinary voters seem to have taken in their stride.

The Establishment is rattled by UKIP; perhaps that is at the core of why voters
want to take a punt on us. The thing about these so-called "protest voters" is
that they are a different sort of protest voters than those the Liberal
Democrats used to attract. I've been a political anorak for 20 years and I still
don't know what the Lib Dems are for, apart from being vaguely nice and
inoffensive. However, anybody who votes for UKIP is well aware of the general
thrust of what we are about.

The clearest way of putting it is to point out that the most important letter in
UKIP is not the UK, as our detractors would have it, but the I. We are about
Independence from the European Union, that much is given, but we are also about
independence from the strangling constraints of the quangos in Whitehall and
beyond. When it comes to local elections we are about independence from the
party apparat that runs the town halls.

It is a simple philosophy. We believe power should and must be devolved down to
the people, where it belongs. Decisions made that affect any man or woman's life
should by and large be made with their consent, with as little interference from
the paid agents of the state as possible. It is what informs our belief in
binding local referendums and a proper system of recall so that failing and
corrupt politicians can be held to account by their constituents.

It is why we believe that there should be the reintroduction of choice in
education, where talent rises from whatever background in which it appears. It
is why the people should be heard when it comes to the level of unskilled
migration.

Comprehensible, yes. Simplistic? Not a bit. Mr Rifkind, I raise your Camus,
Foucault and Sartre with my own Cobbett, Hume and Locke.

Diane James is a UKIP councillor and came second in the Eastleigh by-election

It's a simple philosophy: power should devolve down to the people

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 2, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron points to early vote on Europe;
UKIP turns heat on Tories in local elections Leader hints at referendum vote

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,9

LENGTH: 572 words


David Cameron has shifted ground on Europe hours before the Tories come under
pressure at the polls from UKIP.

The Prime Minister hinted that he might give MPs a vote on an in-out referendum
before the next election. If passed, the vote would enshrine in law his promise
to put the issue of Britain's EU membership to voters before 2017.

Mr Cameron has always held back from giving MPs a pre-election vote on his
proposed referendum. It would split the coalition while enraging pro-European
Tories. But his willingness to entertain the idea is an indication of the
pressure from Nigel Farage's Eurosceptic party and large numbers of his own MPs.
More than 100 Tory MPs have urged him to make such a move as a way of overcoming
scepticism of promised referendums, while undercutting UKIP's appeal.

Downing Street officials said that Jo Johnson, the new head of Mr Cameron's more
politicised No 10 policy unit, would be asked to explore the idea of legislating
in this Parliament to guarantee in law that a referendum would take place on the
Prime Minister's promised timetable.

Tory officials braced the party for the loss of "an enormous number of seats"
when millions of voters go to the polls today in the biggest electoral test of
the year. Some 2,300 seats are being contested in 27 county councils and seven
unitary authorities in England and Wales.

The Tories and Labour were engaged yesterday in competitive "domesday"
expectation management. Labour officials said that the party might fail to win
the biggest share of the vote because of the way today's elections are in areas
dominated by Tory parliamentary seats.

And even as the Office for National Statistics suggested that Britain's
double-dip recession may never have happened, Tory officials said that they were
braced for the loss of "hundreds and hundreds" of seats.

All three main parties are expecting to suffer from defections to UKIP. Even if
the party fails to win more than a few score of seats, their share of the vote
is expected to rise significantly as voters turn against the three main parties.

Mr Cameron made his move yesterday in an interview with BBC Radio 4's The World
At One. Asked about the idea of a Bill to deliver his commitment, he said: "I
think we need to demonstrate absolutely that we are serious about this
referendum. Anything we can do to strengthen that offer I am prepared to
consider."

His change of tack reflects the influence of John Hayes, the minister recently
appointed by Mr Cameron to liaise with backbench MPs, who is sympathetic to the
idea. However, the voters turn against the three establishment parties.

Mr Cameron made his move yesterday in an interview with BBC Radio 4's The World
At One. Asked about the idea of a Bill to deliver his commitment, he said: "I
think we need to demonstrate absolutely that we are serious about this
referendum. Anything we can do to strengthen that offer I am prepared to
consider." His change of tack reflects the influence of John Hayes, the minister
recently appointed by Mr Cameron to liaise with backbench MPs, who is
sympathetic to the idea.

However, the comments will alarm many Tory MPs who believe the tactic is flawed
on two counts - Mr Cameron would probably lose the vote, given that it would be
likely to be opposed by the Liberal Democrats and Labour; if it did succeed, it
would rob the Tories of the promised referendum, one of their unique offers to
voters at the 2015 election.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 2, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UKIP is more than a protest vote - we stand for something Diane James;
THUNDERER

BYLINE: Diane James

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 449 words


he accusations eddy around.

TAccording to Hugo Rifkind in his column this week, UKIP is guilty of being
simplistic in a complex world. And a leading article the day before suggested
that our sums don't add up. That's UKIP for you - disorganised, inchoate,
incoherent. So why on earth are voters flocking to us when they really ought to
be voting for the devils they know? The appeal is really rather simple. We are
straightforward, not simplistic, and we are very serious about what we do, even
though we are not slavishly on-message. Being slightly rough around the edges
and not straight from central casting is something to be proud of. It is also
something that in this week of revelation and allegation about various UKIP
local election candidates, the ordinary voters seem to have taken in their
stride.

The Establishment is rattled by UKIP; perhaps that is at the core of why voters
want to take a punt on us. The thing about these so-called "protest voters" is
that they are a different sort of protest voters than those the Liberal
Democrats used to attract. I've been a political anorak for 20 years and I still
don't know what the Lib Dems are for, apart from being vaguely nice and
inoffensive. However, anybody who votes for UKIP is well aware of the general
thrust of what we are about.

The clearest way of putting it is to point out that the most important letter in
UKIP is not the UK, as our detractors would have it, but the I. We are about
Independence from the European Union, that much is given, but we are also about
independence from the strangling constraints of the quangos in Whitehall and
beyond. When it comes to local elections we are about independence from the
party apparat that runs the town halls.

It is a simple philosophy. We believe power should and must be devolved down to
the people, where it belongs. Decisions made that affect any man or woman's life
should by and large be made with their consent, with as little interference from
the paid agents of the state as possible. It is what informs our belief in
binding local referendums and a proper system of recall so that failing and
corrupt politicians can be held to account by their constituents.

It is why we believe that there should be the reintroduction of choice in
education, where talent rises from whatever background in which it appears. It
is why the people should be heard when it comes to the level of unskilled
migration.

Comprehensible, yes. Simplistic? Not a bit. Mr Rifkind, I raise your Camus,
Foucault and Sartre with my own Cobbett, Hume and Locke.

Diane James is a UKIP councillor and came second in the Eastleigh by-election

It's a simple philosophy: power should devolve down to the people

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Miliband is caught out by borrowing 'black hole';
Labour leader is caught out by 'black hole' on borrowing

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,11

LENGTH: 699 words


Ed Miliband suggested yesterday that he had only limited plans to reform the
welfare state as he struggled to explain how Labour would avoid a rise in
borrowing.

In an interview that left some Labour MPs dismayed while delighting the Tory
leadership, Mr Miliband refused repeatedly to admit that his plans for an
emergency VAT cut would create an immediate black hole in Treasury receipts.

Mr Miliband insisted that Labour's economic blueprint would bring borrowing down
in the medium term and that the VAT cut, for "about a year", would fire economic
growth.

He also said that Labour's "jobs guarantee" to promise work for the long-term
unemployed would cut welfare spending over time.

But word of his performance on BBC Radio, three days before the biggest
electoral test of the year, spread quickly among Labour MPs and overshadowed Mr
Miliband's launch of the Opposition's "alternative Queen's Speech".

Some Labour MPs expressed alarm that Mr Miliband had not been more robust in
saying that Labour was determined to get to grips with welfare spending, a key
lesson from the 2010 election defeat. "We have to show we get it or we'll be
punished," said one, who believes that the party needs to be much bolder in
tackling the benefits bill or risk public distrust.

Mr Miliband's interview, before Thursday's county council elections in England
and Wales, overshadowed tension in Tory ranks. David Cameron refused to say
whether he would encourage his elderly relatives to hand back their winter fuel
allowance, as advocated by Iain Duncan Smith, the Work and Pensions Secretary.

Senior Tories were at odds over how to handle the threat of UKIP, with No 10 and
Boris Johnson telling the likes of Continued on page 11, col 1

Continued from page 1 Ken Clarke to ignore the insurgent party rather than
insulting its candidates and supporters.

Mr Cameron was told that he may have to toughen his promise of an EU referendum
in the next Parliament if the Tories suffer badly at the hands of UKIP this
week.

And trouble flared when Lord Ashcroft, the former Tory deputy chairman,
suggested that headlines about Lynton Crosby, Mr Cameron's Australian
strategist, were a bad sign. Lord Ashcroft, who has an uneasy relationship with
the man dubbed "the wizard of Oz", tweeted: "Lynton Crosby becoming the story.
Dirty linen/public. Whatever the merits not good for the Tories." Mr Crosby has
denied Sunday newspaper reports that he regarded George Osborne, the Chancellor,
as a liability and Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, as lightweight.

Mr Miliband's appearance on yesterday's The World At One on Radio 4 was timed to
coincide with publication of six Bills Labour said would provide economic shock
therapy.

They include a temporary VAT cut from 20 per cent to 17.5 per cent; cutting VAT
to 5 per cent for home repairs for a year; cutting national insurance payments
for small firms who hire new workers; reintroducing the 10p starting rate of
income tax; reintroducing the 50p top rate of income tax.

The Tories put the overall cost of the measures at more than £28 billion.

Mr Miliband was asked repeatedly to confirm that the measures would mean a
short-term rise in borrowing, but he repeatedly dodged the questions, saying
that the economic growth engendered by his measures would see borrowing fall
over time. "I don't accept that borrowing would be higher under a Labour
government because borrowing would be lower in the medium term," he said. "The
point is that they haven't got the growth."

Mr Miliband, asked to say how he would bring down welfare spending, said the
answer was to get people back to work. Labour's "jobs guarantee" is aimed at the
160,000 people over 25 who have been out of work for more than two years and the
70,000 of young people unemployed for more than 12 months. The Government would
help to pay their wages for a year and they would lose benefits if they refused
to take up a job offer.

But some Labour MPs believe that the party must go further to persuade voters
that it can control the welfare bill. Mr Osborne has made clear that he intends
to make cuts to working age benefits a key election dividing line. Rachel
Sylvester, Opinion, page 17

Continued from page 1 Ken [...]

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Miliband is caught out by borrowing 'black hole';
Labour leader is caught out by 'black hole' on borrowing

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,11

LENGTH: 699 words


Ed Miliband suggested yesterday that he had only limited plans to reform the
welfare state as he struggled to explain how Labour would avoid a rise in
borrowing.

In an interview that left some Labour MPs dismayed while delighting the Tory
leadership, Mr Miliband refused repeatedly to admit that his plans for an
emergency VAT cut would create an immediate black hole in Treasury receipts.

Mr Miliband insisted that Labour's economic blueprint would bring borrowing down
in the medium term and that the VAT cut, for "about a year", would fire economic
growth.

He also said that Labour's "jobs guarantee" to promise work for the long-term
unemployed would cut welfare spending over time.

But word of his performance on BBC Radio, three days before the biggest
electoral test of the year, spread quickly among Labour MPs and overshadowed Mr
Miliband's launch of the Opposition's "alternative Queen's Speech".

Some Labour MPs expressed alarm that Mr Miliband had not been more robust in
saying that Labour was determined to get to grips with welfare spending, a key
lesson from the 2010 election defeat. "We have to show we get it or we'll be
punished," said one, who believes that the party needs to be much bolder in
tackling the benefits bill or risk public distrust.

Mr Miliband's interview, before Thursday's county council elections in England
and Wales, overshadowed tension in Tory ranks. David Cameron refused to say
whether he would encourage his elderly relatives to hand back their winter fuel
allowance, as advocated by Iain Duncan Smith, the Work and Pensions Secretary.

Senior Tories were at odds over how to handle the threat of UKIP, with No 10 and
Boris Johnson telling the likes of Continued on page 11, col 1

Continued from page 1 Ken Clarke to ignore the insurgent party rather than
insulting its candidates and supporters.

Mr Cameron was told that he may have to toughen his promise of an EU referendum
in the next Parliament if the Tories suffer badly at the hands of UKIP this
week.

And trouble flared when Lord Ashcroft, the former Tory deputy chairman,
suggested that headlines about Lynton Crosby, Mr Cameron's Australian
strategist, were a bad sign. Lord Ashcroft, who has an uneasy relationship with
the man dubbed "the wizard of Oz", tweeted: "Lynton Crosby becoming the story.
Dirty linen/public. Whatever the merits not good for the Tories." Mr Crosby has
denied Sunday newspaper reports that he regarded George Osborne, the Chancellor,
as a liability and Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, as lightweight.

Mr Miliband's appearance on yesterday's The World At One on Radio 4 was timed to
coincide with publication of six Bills Labour said would provide economic shock
therapy.

They include a temporary VAT cut from 20 per cent to 17.5 per cent; cutting VAT
to 5 per cent for home repairs for a year; cutting national insurance payments
for small firms who hire new workers; reintroducing the 10p starting rate of
income tax; reintroducing the 50p top rate of income tax.

The Tories put the overall cost of the measures at more than £28 billion.

Mr Miliband was asked repeatedly to confirm that the measures would mean a
short-term rise in borrowing, but he repeatedly dodged the questions, saying
that the economic growth engendered by his measures would see borrowing fall
over time. "I don't accept that borrowing would be higher under a Labour
government because borrowing would be lower in the medium term," he said. "The
point is that they haven't got the growth."

Mr Miliband, asked to say how he would bring down welfare spending, said the
answer was to get people back to work. Labour's "jobs guarantee" is aimed at the
160,000 people over 25 who have been out of work for more than two years and the
70,000 of young people unemployed for more than 12 months. The Government would
help to pay their wages for a year and they would lose benefits if they refused
to take up a job offer.

But some Labour MPs believe that the party must go further to persuade voters
that it can control the welfare bill. Mr Osborne has made clear that he intends
to make cuts to working age benefits a key election dividing line. Rachel
Sylvester, Opinion, page 23

Continued from page 1 Ken [...]

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 26, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Brussels fury as Swiss set limit on immigrants;
Strict quotas will curb growing flood of economic migrants from Eastern Europe,
David Charter writes

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 735 words


Europeans hoping to escape the economic downturn were told yesterday that the
continent's most prosperous country was pulling up the drawbridge to stop a
surge of jobless migrants.

To fury in Brussels, Switzerland announced quotas for new residents that will
apply to immigrants from the eight Eastern European countries that joined the
European Union nine years ago. These include Poland, Hungary and the Czech
Republic.

Limits are also being prepared for the 17 older EU states, including Britain,
and France, where the numbers of jobless rose to a record 3.2 million to beat
the previous high set in 1997, and Spain, where unemployment reached a record
level yesterday of 6 million or 27.2 per cent of the workforce. In contrast, the
unemployment rate in Switzerland fell in March to just 3.2 per cent, lower than
anywhere in the EU, where the average rate is 10.9 per cent.

The EU accused non-member Switzerland of breaking an agreement on the free
movement of people in terse comments issued by Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the
British member of the European Commission in charge of foreign affairs.

But the Alpine nation stood its ground, retorting that it had already negotiated
the ability to impose limits on migrants with Brussels once new arrivals reached
critical levels and would not be changing plans to bring in controls from May 1.
Eurosceptic British MPs argued that Switzerland's control over the numbers of EU
workers allowed in gave their system extra legitimacy when contrasted with
Britain's obligation to accept all-comers.

"Switzerland has a greater dependence upon a skilled and dedicated foreign
workforce but the key thing is they are in control of it, so that if it starts
to be too much of a good thing they can put the dampeners on," said Douglas
Carswell, a Eurosceptic Conservative backbencher.

"It is a better system from the point of view of social cohesion. Being able to
manage it democratically is absolutely vital. It shows that the Swiss have a far
superior relationship with the EU from outside than we manage from within."

Foreign migrants make up almost one fifth of the population in Switzerland, a
country of 8 million people. The highest numbers of foreign residents come from
Italy (294,000), Germany (285,000) and Portugal (238,000), but the biggest
increase in 2012 was from Hungary, with arrivals up by 23.6 per cent.

A Swiss government statement said that the number of foreigners arriving in
Switzerland to work was between 60,000 and 80,000 higher each year than the
number leaving.

It invoked a safeguard clause in an agreement with the EU to limit longterm
residency permits to 2,180 for eastern Europeans from May 1, and 53,700 for the
17 older EU states from June 1. Bulgaria and Romania were already covered by
separate Swiss restrictions which run until 2016, while all limits within the EU
will be lifted on January 1. "The safeguard clause is one of several measures
which can help to make immigration more acceptable to society and compatible
with its needs," the Government said in a statement.

The level of new arrivals is blamed for driving up house prices and fuelling
support for the nationalistic Swiss People's Party, which has managed to collect
the required 100,000 signatures for a referendum to limit further the number of
new residents.

An environmental group, Ecology and Population, has collected 120,000 signatures
calling for a referendum to limit the growth of the population to 0.2 per cent a
year. The number of EU residents rose by 4.1 per cent in 2012.

Simonetta Sommaruga, the Swiss Justice Minister from the Social Democratic
Party, said: "It is a fact that there is unease among the population, and it is
necessary to take this unease seriously."

But Baroness Ashton said: "The measures adopted by the Swiss Government are
contrary to the Agreement on the Free Movement of Persons ... The European Union
attaches great importance to the free movement of persons in the overall context
of its relations with Switzerland.

"These measures disregard the great benefits that the free movement of persons
brings to the citizens of both Switzerland and the EU."

Her officials said that they would consider what action to take although
Switzerland, as a non-EU member, is not subject to the European Court of Justice
on immigration matters.

Switzerland has the power to impose controls for only one more year after which
the current agreements run out.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 26, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brussels fury as Swiss set limit on immigrants;
Strict quotas will curb growing flood of economic migrants from Eastern Europe,
David Charter writes

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 735 words


Europeans hoping to escape the economic downturn were told yesterday that the
continent's most prosperous country was pulling up the drawbridge to stop a
surge of jobless migrants.

To fury in Brussels, Switzerland announced quotas for new residents that will
apply to immigrants from the eight Eastern European countries that joined the
European Union nine years ago. These include Poland, Hungary and the Czech
Republic.

Limits are also being prepared for the 17 older EU states, including Britain,
and France, where the numbers of jobless rose to a record 3.2 million to beat
the previous high set in 1997, and Spain, where unemployment reached a record
level yesterday of 6 million or 27.2 per cent of the workforce. In contrast, the
unemployment rate in Switzerland fell in March to just 3.2 per cent, lower than
anywhere in the EU, where the average rate is 10.9 per cent.

The EU accused non-member Switzerland of breaking an agreement on the free
movement of people in terse comments issued by Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the
British member of the European Commission in charge of foreign affairs.

But the Alpine nation stood its ground, retorting that it had already negotiated
the ability to impose limits on migrants with Brussels once new arrivals reached
critical levels and would not be changing plans to bring in controls from May 1.
Eurosceptic British MPs argued that Switzerland's control over the numbers of EU
workers allowed in gave their system extra legitimacy when contrasted with
Britain's obligation to accept all-comers.

"Switzerland has a greater dependence upon a skilled and dedicated foreign
workforce but the key thing is they are in control of it, so that if it starts
to be too much of a good thing they can put the dampeners on," said Douglas
Carswell, a Eurosceptic Conservative backbencher.

"It is a better system from the point of view of social cohesion. Being able to
manage it democratically is absolutely vital. It shows that the Swiss have a far
superior relationship with the EU from outside than we manage from within."

Foreign migrants make up almost one fifth of the population in Switzerland, a
country of 8 million people. The highest numbers of foreign residents come from
Italy (294,000), Germany (285,000) and Portugal (238,000), but the biggest
increase in 2012 was from Hungary, with arrivals up by 23.6 per cent.

A Swiss government statement said that the number of foreigners arriving in
Switzerland to work was between 60,000 and 80,000 higher each year than the
number leaving.

It invoked a safeguard clause in an agreement with the EU to limit longterm
residency permits to 2,180 for eastern Europeans from May 1, and 53,700 for the
17 older EU states from June 1. Bulgaria and Romania were already covered by
separate Swiss restrictions which run until 2016, while all limits within the EU
will be lifted on January 1. "The safeguard clause is one of several measures
which can help to make immigration more acceptable to society and compatible
with its needs," the Government said in a statement.

The level of new arrivals is blamed for driving up house prices and fuelling
support for the nationalistic Swiss People's Party, which has managed to collect
the required 100,000 signatures for a referendum to limit further the number of
new residents.

An environmental group, Ecology and Population, has collected 120,000 signatures
calling for a referendum to limit the growth of the population to 0.2 per cent a
year. The number of EU residents rose by 4.1 per cent in 2012.

Simonetta Sommaruga, the Swiss Justice Minister from the Social Democratic
Party, said: "It is a fact that there is unease among the population, and it is
necessary to take this unease seriously."

But Baroness Ashton said: "The measures adopted by the Swiss Government are
contrary to the Agreement on the Free Movement of Persons ... The European Union
attaches great importance to the free movement of persons in the overall context
of its relations with Switzerland.

"These measures disregard the great benefits that the free movement of persons
brings to the citizens of both Switzerland and the EU."

Her officials said that they would consider what action to take although
Switzerland, as a non-EU member, is not subject to the European Court of Justice
on immigration matters.

Switzerland has the power to impose controls for only one more year after which
the current agreements run out.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 26, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Brussels fury as Swiss set limit on immigrants;
Strict quotas will curb growing flood of economic migrants from Eastern Europe,
David Charter writes

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 734 words


Europeans hoping to escape the economic downturn were told yesterday that the
Continent's most prosperous country was pulling up the drawbridge to stop a
surge of jobless migrants.

To fury in Brussels, Switzerland announced quotas for new residents that will
apply to immigrants from the eight Eastern European countries that joined the
European Union nine years ago. These include Poland, Hungary and the Czech
Republic.

Limits are also being prepared for the 17 older EU states, including Britain,
and France, where the numbers of jobless rose to a record 3.2 million to beat
the previous high set in 1997, and Spain, where unemployment reached a record
level yesterday of 6 million or 27.2 per cent of the workforce. In contrast,
unemployment in Switzerland fell in March to just 3.2 per cent, lower than
anywhere in the EU, where the average rate is 10.9 per cent.

The EU accused non-member Switzerland of breaking an agreement on the free
movement of people in terse comments issued by Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the
British member of the European Commission in charge of foreign affairs.

But the Alpine nation stood its ground, retorting that it had already negotiated
the ability to impose limits on migrants with Brussels once new arrivals reached
critical levels and would not be changing plans to bring in controls from May 1.
Eurosceptic British MPs argued that Switzerland's control over the numbers of EU
workers allowed in gave their system extra legitimacy when contrasted with
Britain's obligation to accept all-comers.

"Switzerland has a greater dependence upon a skilled and dedicated foreign
workforce but the key thing is they are in control of it, so that if it starts
to be too much of a good thing they can put the dampeners on," said Douglas
Carswell, a Eurosceptic Conservative backbencher.

"It is a better system from the point of view of social cohesion. Being able to
manage it democratically is absolutely vital. It shows that the Swiss have a far
superior relationship with the EU from outside than we manage from within."

Foreign migrants make up almost one fifth of the population in Switzerland, a
country of eight million people. The highest numbers of foreign residents come
from Italy (294,000), Germany (285,000) and Portugal (238,000), but the biggest
increase in 2012 was from Hungary, with arrivals up by 23.6 per cent.

A Swiss government statement said that the number of foreigners arriving in
Switzerland to work was between 60,000 and 80,000 higher each year than the
number leaving.

It invoked a safeguard clause in an agreement with the EU to limit longterm
residency permits to 2,180 for eastern Europeans from May 1, and 53,700 for the
17 older EU states from June 1. Bulgaria and Romania were already covered by
separate Swiss restrictions which run until 2016, while all limits within the EU
will be lifted on January 1. "The safeguard clause is one of several measures
which can help to make immigration more acceptable to society and compatible
with its needs," the Government said in a statement.

The level of new arrivals is blamed for driving up house prices and fuelling
support for the nationalistic Swiss People's Party, which has managed to collect
the required 100,000 signatures for a referendum to limit further the number of
new residents.

An environmental group, Ecology and Population, has collected 120,000 signatures
calling for a referendum to limit the growth of the population to 0.2 per cent a
year. The number of EU residents rose by 4.1 per cent in 2012.

Simonetta Sommaruga, the Swiss Justice Minister from the Social Democratic
Party, said: "It is a fact that there is unease among the population, and it is
necessary to take this unease seriously."

But Baroness Ashton said: "The measures adopted by the Swiss Government are
contrary to the Agreement on the Free Movement of Persons ... The European Union
attaches great importance to the free movement of persons in the overall context
of its relations with Switzerland.

"These measures disregard the great benefits that the free movement of persons
brings to the citizens of both Switzerland and the EU."

Her officials said that they would consider what action to take although
Switzerland, as a non-EU member, is not subject to the European Court of Justice
on immigration matters.

Switzerland has the power to impose controls for only one more year after which
the present agreements run out.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stand-off with a stranger tells me we need a referendum

BYLINE: Robert Crampton

SECTION: T2;NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 631 words


When I was covering Margaret Thatcher's funeral last week, the man standing next
to me struck up a conversation. That's nice, I thought, partly because I thought
he might be good for a quote, partly because much of the appeal of these big
national occasions is that the usual barriers come down and those who might not
otherwise do so start to chat to one another. I, in common with most people I
assume, believe such random interactions between strangers to be a good thing.

And for about three minutes, this one was. This chap was pleasant and polite. We
established that while we both originated in the North, we were now living down
south, me in East London, him in Hampshire. We agreed the deceased had done some
good things, some bad things. We concurred that Britain handled ceremony
superbly well, and, on balance, Maggie merited a decent sendoff.

"Not the same country now though, is it?" he said. I asked him what he meant,
despite having a pretty good idea. "Well," he said, gesturing at a couple of
mixed-race spectators near by, "you know what I'm saying." Do you mean, I asked,
not the same country now as in when Mrs Thatcher was running it, or not the same
country now as in London is different from where you live. "Both," he answered.

And, of course, this chap was right.

Britain is very different in 2013 than it was in 1990, when Mrs Thatcher left
Downing Street, let alone in 1979, when she arrived there. And London (37 per
cent of its residents born abroad, as against 13 per cent for the whole of
England and Wales) is very different from the rest of Britain. The question is,
whether you think these differences are welcome or not. I think they are; this
chap didn't. We didn't have a lot more to say to each other.

It's a stand-off, and it needs to be resolved.

We read about the North-South divide, and in economic and political terms, that
divide persists. In cultural terms, however, or more accurately in psychological
terms, the divide between London and pretty much everywhere else (begging the
pardon of the progressive enclaves in the other big cities) is becoming as
significant. When I go home to East Yorkshire, I often meet people who are
pro-Labour and pro-tax 'n' spend to their bootstraps, but who are also
xenophobic, homophobic and reactionary, to the extent that they think you're
weird if you aren't too.

I look at Michael Gove. I like Michael Gove - we used to be colleagues on this
paper - and while he is lazily caricatured as an old-fashioned Tory, Michael is
palpably concerned that pupils from poor backgrounds are ill-served both by
their environment and by the current education system. So he backs a scheme to
remedy this, an inner London academy which wants to set up a state boarding
school in leafy Sussex.

Get those Lambeth kids away from the fear - and the temptation - of their own
mean streets, give them a chance of a better life? We can all agree with that,
surely? No, Gove is being opposed by members of his own party, one of whom - a
county councillor - had to resign on Sunday after making blatantly racist
remarks about the intake of the proposed new school.

Or look at UKIP. UKIP is doing well up and down the country, north and south,
taking votes from the Tories, yes, but also from Labour. (Except in London.) And
the truth about the UKIP surge? As a report on a focus group of UKIP voters
reveals, what distinguishes UKIP voters, primarily, is nostalgia. What they want
isn't anything more or less sinister than that Britain go back to what they
imagine it used to be like.

We argue about a referendum on our continued membership of the European Union.
The plebiscite we should be having is whether any of the changes of the past 30,
40, 50 years have been beneficial. That's the clash that needs to happen. I say:
bring it on.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STEFAN ROUSSEAU / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 22, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Business calls for new deal 'are start of move to leave the EU'

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 347 words


Senior allies of David Cameron have expressed concern about a campaign backed by
500 leading businesses to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU,
fearing it is the start of a movement to leave the union altogether. No 10 is
likely to be relieved that one leading Tory donor, Lord Leach, decided against
publicly supporting the initiative in the last few days.

This comes amid high-level government concern about his involvement because he
is chairman of Open Europe, which supports Britain's ongoing membership of the
EU.

Some of Britain's most prominent business names, including Sir Stuart Rose, the
former chief of M&S, Lord Bilimoria, chairman of Cobra beer, and Lord Wolfson of
the retailer Next, today publicly back the "Business for Britain" campaign.
Other signatories include Lord Harris, founder of Carpetright, Adrian Beecroft,
the chairman of Dawn Capital and Peter Cruddas of CMC Markets.

The campaign welcomes Mr Cameron's promise to seek a new deal for Britain in
Europe, saying "a flexible, competitive Europe, with more powers devolved from
Brussels, is essential for growth, jobs and access to markets".

The group launched today is led by Matthew Elliott, the influential eurosceptic
Tory campaigneer who ran the "no to AV" campaign.

Many in government believe that this group would lead the "exit" campaign in the
event of a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

The "Backing Britain" group is aligning with the private views of Michael Gove,
the Education Secretary, and Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, who would vote
to leave the EU if there were a referendum tomorrow.

Mr Elliott said: "Treaty change is going to happen in the next few years,
whichever party is in power. The Government of the day should use the
opportunity to get a better deal from the EU. The most sensible approach is to
build support within Britain to empower our politicians to go out and get a
better deal."

An ally of Mr Cameron said: "This will, in all likelihood, turn into the
campaign to leave the EU, and people should be aware of that."

John Caudwell, Opinion, page 18

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 22, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Business calls for new deal 'are start of move to leave the EU'

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 347 words


Senior allies of David Cameron have expressed concern about a campaign backed by
500 leading businesses to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU,
fearing it is the start of a movement to leave the union altogether. No 10 is
likely to be relieved that one leading Tory donor, Lord Leach, decided against
publicly supporting the initiative in the last few days.

This comes amid high-level government concern about his involvement because he
is chairman of Open Europe, which supports Britain's ongoing membership of the
EU.

Some of Britain's most prominent business names, including Sir Stuart Rose, the
former chief of M&S, Lord Bilimoria, chairman of Cobra beer, and Lord Wolfson of
the retailer Next, today publicly back the "Business for Britain" campaign.
Other signatories include Lord Harris, founder of Carpetright, Adrian Beecroft,
the chairman of Dawn Capital and Peter Cruddas of CMC Markets.

The campaign welcomes Mr Cameron's promise to seek a new deal for Britain in
Europe, saying "a flexible, competitive Europe, with more powers devolved from
Brussels, is essential for growth, jobs and access to markets".

The group launched today is led by Matthew Elliott, the influential eurosceptic
Tory campaigneer who ran the "no to AV" campaign.

Many in government believe that this group would lead the "exit" campaign in the
event of a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

The "Backing Britain" group is aligning with the private views of Michael Gove,
the Education Secretary, and Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, who would vote
to leave the EU if there were a referendum tomorrow.

Mr Elliott said: "Treaty change is going to happen in the next few years,
whichever party is in power. The Government of the day should use the
opportunity to get a better deal from the EU. The most sensible approach is to
build support within Britain to empower our politicians to go out and get a
better deal."

An ally of Mr Cameron said: "This will, in all likelihood, turn into the
campaign to leave the EU, and people should be aware of that."

John Caudwell, Opinion, page 24

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Iron Lady would have kept UK in EU;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 228 words


Sir, Nigel Farage argues "when speculating on what Margaret Thatcher would do if
she was in power today, it is essential to remember that she was a scientist"
(Opinion, Apr 15).

Thatcher was Prime Minister in 1986 when Britain signed up to the Single
European Act. As stated in the Act's Preamble, the intent of the then 11 members
of the European Community was "to transform relations as a whole among their
States into a European Union". Friends and foes alike agree that Thatcher tended
to keep her word once given.

stanley henig Former Professor of European Politics, University of Central
Lancashire Sir, Nigel Farage is right but not for any reason which will give him
comfort. History will surely see the Thatcher era as the last defiant flickering
of a post-colonial nationalism. UKIP, as its name suggests, represents the dead
embers of that flame, refusing to accept the global change towards a more equal
and interdependent international community of states. tony miller London W5 Sir,
Peter Brent (letter, Apr 15) seeks to perpetuate the myth that the British voted
to join the EEC. Edward Heath did not have the courage to put joining to a
referendum but took Britain into the EEC without consultation outside
Parliament. Harold Wilson, when he came to power, gave us a referendum on
whether we should come out. A very different thing.

ken rowe Uckfield, E Sussex

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Catalonians prepare for independence

BYLINE: Graham Keeley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 200 words


A group of 14 Catalonian academics and lawyers have been given the task of
preparing the restive region for independence from Spain. The Council for
National Transition (CNT) has been asked by the Catalonian government to plan
every aspect of a proposed new country, including currency, passports and even
setting up its own army.

The initiative coincides with an increasingly tense standoff between Artur Mas,
the Catalonian regional president, and Mariano Rajoy, the Spanish Prime
Minister. Mr Mas has called for a referendum but has been consistently rebuffed
by Mr Rajoy, who says it is unconstitutional. Under the Spanish constitution,
only the central government in Madrid can give permission for a region to vote
on independence.

The CNT will advise on how the finances of a future state would work, setting up
a Bank of Catalonia and taxraising powers. Catalonia is Spain's most indebted
state, (EURO)51billion in the red. If it became independent it would have to
take on at least part of this debt.

The CNT will also work on the basis of Catalonia joining the EU. Josep Maria
Reniu, of the CNT, said that citizens of the Republic of Catalonia might have
dual nationality.

Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Mas Uprising

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words


Splitting from Madrid would hurt Catalonia at least as much as it would Spain
Catalan hearts swell when they see Catalonia's scarlet-and-yellow flag crack in
the wind above their wealthy northeastern corner of Spain. It will almost
certainly flap less feistily if Catalonia succeeds in separating itself from the
rest of country. That hasn't stopped Artur Mas, the Catalan regional president,
pledging to hold a referendum on splitting from Spain next year, and from asking
a group of academics to craft the contours of the new state. Mariano Rajoy,
Spain's Prime Minister, has warned that such a referendum would be
unconstitutional.

Catalonia is carrying on regardless.

Mr Mas and his fellow Catalans should be wary what they wish for. Independence,
far from allowing Catalonia to hoard its riches, would almost certainly leave it
poorer. It is true that Catalonia contributes one fifth of Spain's GDP. But it
is also burdened with Spain's biggest debt. With no guarantee that the EU would
accept (or want) Catalonia as a separate state, with the euro as its currency,
Catalonia's debts would prove more worrying.

And with the rest of Spain weakened by its exit, a sovereign Catalonia would
swiftly suffer from the troubles of its biggest trading partner.

Catalonia and Madrid may struggle to live together, but they would struggle to
survive apart. Such a rupture to the eurozone's fourth biggest economy would
hobble attempts to rescue the euro. Not to mention the awkward precedent of the
eurozone's richer pockets excusing themselves from having to underwrite less
industrious neighbours.

"There are occasions," George Orwell wrote in Homage to Catalonia, "when it pays
better to fight and be beaten than not to fight at all." Maybe that is still,
secretly, how Mr Mas hopes hopes to secure both Catalonia's pride and its
continued prosperity.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Catalonians prepare for independence

BYLINE: Graham Keeley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 200 words


A group of 14 Catalonian academics and lawyers have been given the task of
preparing the restive region for independence from Spain. The Council for
National Transition (CNT) has been asked by the Catalonian government to plan
every aspect of a proposed new country, including currency, passports and even
setting up its own army.

The initiative coincides with an increasingly tense standoff between Artur Mas,
the Catalonian regional president, and Mariano Rajoy, the Spanish Prime
Minister. Mr Mas has called for a referendum but has been consistently rebuffed
by Mr Rajoy, who says it is unconstitutional. Under the Spanish constitution,
only the central government in Madrid can give permission for a region to vote
on independence.

The CNT will advise on how the finances of a future state would work, setting up
a Bank of Catalonia and taxraising powers. Catalonia is Spain's most indebted
state, (EURO)51billion in the red. If it became independent it would have to
take on at least part of this debt.

The CNT will also work on the basis of Catalonia joining the EU. Josep Maria
Reniu, of the CNT, said that citizens of the Republic of Catalonia might have
dual nationality.

Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Iron Lady would have kept UK in EU;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 228 words


Sir, Nigel Farage argues "when speculating on what Margaret Thatcher would do if
she was in power today, it is essential to remember that she was a scientist"
(Opinion, Apr 15).

Thatcher was Prime Minister in 1986 when Britain signed up to the Single
European Act. As stated in the Act's Preamble, the intent of the then 11 members
of the European Community was "to transform relations as a whole among their
States into a European Union". Friends and foes alike agree that Thatcher tended
to keep her word once given.

stanley henig Former Professor of European Politics, University of Central
Lancashire Sir, Nigel Farage is right but not for any reason which will give him
comfort. History will surely see the Thatcher era as the last defiant flickering
of a post-colonial nationalism. UKIP, as its name suggests, represents the dead
embers of that flame, refusing to accept the global change towards a more equal
and interdependent international community of states. tony miller London W5 Sir,
Peter Brent (letter, Apr 15) seeks to perpetuate the myth that the British voted
to join the EEC. Edward Heath did not have the courage to put joining to a
referendum but took Britain into the EEC without consultation outside
Parliament. Harold Wilson, when he came to power, gave us a referendum on
whether we should come out. A very different thing.

ken rowe Uckfield, E Sussex

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mas Uprising

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words


Splitting from Madrid would hurt Catalonia at least as much as it would Spain
Catalan hearts swell when they see Catalonia's scarlet-and-yellow flag crack in
the wind above their wealthy northeastern corner of Spain. It will almost
certainly flap less feistily if Catalonia succeeds in separating itself from the
rest of country. That hasn't stopped Artur Mas, the Catalan regional president,
pledging to hold a referendum on splitting from Spain next year, and from asking
a group of academics to craft the contours of the new state. Mariano Rajoy,
Spain's Prime Minister, has warned that such a referendum would be
unconstitutional.

Catalonia is carrying on regardless.

Mr Mas and his fellow Catalans should be wary what they wish for. Independence,
far from allowing Catalonia to hoard its riches, would almost certainly leave it
poorer. It is true that Catalonia contributes one fifth of Spain's GDP. But it
is also burdened with Spain's biggest debt. With no guarantee that the EU would
accept (or want) Catalonia as a separate state, with the euro as its currency,
Catalonia's debts would prove more worrying.

And with the rest of Spain weakened by its exit, a sovereign Catalonia would
swiftly suffer from the troubles of its biggest trading partner.

Catalonia and Madrid may struggle to live together, but they would struggle to
survive apart. Such a rupture to the eurozone's fourth biggest economy would
hobble attempts to rescue the euro. Not to mention the awkward precedent of the
eurozone's richer pockets excusing themselves from having to underwrite less
industrious neighbours.

"There are occasions," George Orwell wrote in Homage to Catalonia, "when it pays
better to fight and be beaten than not to fight at all." Maybe that is still,
secretly, how Mr Mas hopes hopes to secure both Catalonia's pride and its
continued prosperity.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Baroness Thatcher;
Lives remembered

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 520 words


Professor David Norman writes: Not mentioned in your life of Baroness Thatcher
(obituary, Apr 9) was that she was proud of her scientific training, rare among
British politicians, and maintained an interest in scientific research
throughout her life.

I had first-hand experience in July 1990 when her holiday travel plans were due
to take her past Daresbury Laboratory in Cheshire, home of the world's first
synchrotron light source. We were given one day's notice that she would visit
for an hour to see some science in action. As a relatively junior physicist at
the time, I was selected to show her my experiments on the surface structure of
thermionic cathodes while a biologist colleague demonstrated his X-ray studies
of how muscles work. The Prime Minister seemed thrilled to be surrounded by
young scientists, and especially to know that some British research was leading
the world. We were amazed to be told that every year she asked for her red box
of "holiday reading" always to include some recent scientific papers.

Robert Elphick writes: Baroness Thatcher was renowned for her immaculate
appearance however stressful the event. I met her first in Luxembourg just after
she had won the Tory party leadership. The 1975 referendum was looming and Mrs
Thatcher, as she then was, made her debut on the European stage. As the BBC's
man at the time, I was down to do the TV interview of her first impressions of
meeting the Members of the European Parliament, all Tories because the Labour
Party was boycotting the institution at the time.

We met in a crowded and very noisy room at a buffet lunch. We sat her down in a
corner and lighted the primitive set. "This is really important," she said in a
small almost girlish voice. I reassured her and asked whether she was ready. She
nodded and I began with a few words. She interrupted suddenly. "Where's the
camera?" she asked. I explained that it was that black hole she could see not
far away under the lights. "Oh, I cannot be filmed from this side," she said.
"We'll have to start again." There was an audible oath from my cameraman who was
using a limited roll of film, but we re-lighted the whole thing in no time; sat
her round so that her preferred profile was visible and she was word perfect.

The Rev Dr Derek Stanesby writes: As a canon of St George's Chapel, Windsor
Castle (1985-1997) I was invited to attend one of the Queen's garden parties at
Buckingham Palace each summer. It was traditional for the Queen, with other
members of the Royal Family, to appear on the steps of the Palace and slowly
make her way through the two lines of loyal and enthusiastic guests that formed
around her.

On one of these occasions I noticed a second wave of enthusiastic guests running
parallel to the Queen's procession, greeting what appeared to be another regal
figure. It was none other than the Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, holding
court.

V If you would like to add a personal view or recollection to a published
obituary, you can send your contribution by post to Times Obituaries, 3 Thomas
More Square, London E98 1TT, or by e-mail to tributes@thetimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Maggie would vote for getting out, out, out;
The former PM would look at the evidence and withdraw from the EU, says Nigel
Farage ; What would Thatcher do today about ... Europe

BYLINE: Nigel Farage

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 677 words


When speculating on what Margaret Thatcher would do if she was in power today,
it is essential to remember that she was a scientist. Not a theoretical
scientist but a real one - a research chemist who was no stranger to the
laboratory.

Everything in her politics was underpinned by the scientific method: the
formulation, testing and modification of hypotheses. And when evidence proved
received wisdom wrong, Mrs Thatcher was not afraid to change her mind.

So it was with her opinion on the Common Market and its evolution into the EU.
Just go to the Thatcher Foundation website and search "Common Market": her
dismissal of concerns about the loss of sovereignty in the late 1960s and 1970s
make her sound like Peter Mandelson today.

Her belief in the conventional wisdom culminated in that infamous picture of her
wearing her Joseph jumper of many flags, as she campaigned hard for a British
"Yes" vote in the 1975 referendum about whether to stay in.

The difference between 1975 and now is that the hypothesis that Britain is
better off in the EU has been tested to destruction, refuted by bitter
experience. So what would Mrs Thatcher do about Britain's relationship with the
EU if she was in power now? Her position would be very simple: she would want
out. The workings of the EU made it quite apparent to her that not only was it
going down the wrong track, but that it would be unreformable.

When she was in No 10 and began seriously to question the route that the UK had
set and she had followed, the "Brussels irregulars" in her own party, as Norman
Tebbit has so pithily called them, blocked her. Nonetheless, out of office she
was president of the Bruges Group, an organisation now dedicated to Britain's
withdrawal from the EU and her last book, Statecraft (2003), made some sharp
observations about the dangers of the European project: "What we should grasp
from the lessons of European history is that, first, there is nothing
necessarily benevolent about programmes of European integration; second, the
desire to achieve grand utopian plans often poses a grave threat to freedom ..."
The UK certainly wouldn't be in this current mess if she were in charge. Not
only would our negotiations on countless directives small and large have been
very different, we would never have signed up to the slew of post-Thatcher
treaties as they stood. Simply put, she would never have allowed it. She, unlike
the smaller men who have followed her, had the generosity of spirit to believe
that the people of this country are quite capable of setting their own course.
She, unlike today's hidebound elite, trusted the British people, their instincts
and their drive. Her whole career was about proving that the man in Whitehall
does not know best.

I was asked last week if UKIP would have been necessary if Mrs Thatcher had not
been overthrown before the Maastricht treaty. Had she still been in power in
1992 there would have been a referendum on that treaty, and the need for UKIP
would probably never have arisen.

What would she do today? She would trust the people and give them a say over the
heads of the Establishment. So she would offer an in/out referendum now - and
campaign hard for an "out" vote - to ascertain the will of the people.

There would be two practical options open to her in the event of a vote for
leaving. Either she would ask Parliament to repeal the European Communities Act,
or she would comply with Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union and make
clear the intention of British withdrawal before negotiating the details of
exit. That is, after all, what European law demands - and she understood the
law. She would have no truck with the deception being practised by the current
Government, in which both consulting the people and the withdrawal option are
afterthoughts.

Mrs Thatcher would follow the logic of what she knew to be true. As another
scientist once said while pointing to the evidence, "and yet it moves".

Nigel Farage is the leader of the UK Independence Party

Had Thatcher stayed, the need for UKIP would not have arisen

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Shock news: Britain not isolated in Europe;
Cameron's successful visit to Germany shows that his eurosceptic views are
gaining ground

BYLINE: Thomas Kielinger

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 929 words


Angela and David - theirs must be one of the most eye-catching romances of
recent political history. Seven years ago they were locking horns because the
newly elected Tory leader had ordered his MEPs to leave the European People's
Party, where all right-minded conservatives are grouped together, Mrs Merkel's
Christian Democrats included, and join a new centre-right group of Cameron's own
creation.

If you could see them now... Over the weekend they celebrated a spring awakening
in each other's company, with Samantha, Joachim and the Cameron children thrown
in for good measure. What a metamorphosis. Never before has the PM taken his
entire family on a foreign trip with so much policy content, nor has Mrs Merkel
awarded such closeness to any other guest, foreign or German, at the German
government's official residence at Schloss Meseberg.

Now, it may be an axiom of political philosophy that nations don't have friends,
they have only interests. But it surely helps in this crisis-fraught age if the
protagonists manage to add friendship to networking and by doing so to reinforce
common purposes.

Headline-writers tend to overlook what unites people, prefering to go for the
drama of enmity and rupture of one kind or another. Thus it was with Mr
Cameron's EU speech in January that called for powers to be returned to the
national level. But little notice was taken of what the German Chancellor had
been saying that same week at Davos. Mrs Merkel, too, spoke of the need for the
EU to commit to reform to improve competitiveness and to reverse the deep
alienation Europeans feels towards the "union", a misnomer if ever there was
one.

On such issues Mr Cameron and Mrs Merkel are as one. Yet even on the vexatious
question of the "competences" London wants to repatriate from Brussels, the gap
between the two leaders is narrowing. The cacophony of abuse that greeted his
speech has in Germany given way to the murmur of second thoughts making
allegations of British isolation in Europe look misplaced.

Michael Meister, the deputy parliamentary chairman of Mrs Merkel's governing
party, was asked at the end of last week what the German Government thought
about Mr Cameron's much-maligned "review of competences" - the result of which
is to determine the in-or-out referendum the Prime Minster has promised to hold
in 2017.

"We need compromises," the Meister-singer avowed. "We are open for arguments."
Significantly, he admitted that "intensive discussions are taking place" about
the Prime Minister's ideas. That's exactly what the meeting in Meseberg was
about.

Whether a change in existing EU treaties is required, which Mrs Merkel et al are
absolutely set against, is much too early to tell. More importantly, thanks to
Mr Cameron's straight talking, tackling the long-identified "democracy deficit"
that risks wrecking the European project has acquired a new urgency. Setting
deadlines helps, too, even if David Cameron may himself be politically dead by
2017.

Mrs Merkel certainly has no wish to see her new British friend fall into the
European death trap. The chemistry between them is strongly enhanced by her
strategic conviction that for the EU to lose Britain but gain Croatia, Bulgaria
or Romania stands logic and good sense on its head.

But there is a domestic angle to her calculations as well. If she wants to
maintain her current popularity right up to the national elections in September
it is good politics to be moving closer to Mr Cameron and his ideas of open
markets and democratic accountability, rather than going for the more statist
French and their protectionist instincts.

There is a secret army of Cameron followers in Germany who applaud his
no-nonsense approach to the EU, which their own politicians rarely dare to
apply. Frustration with the onus the bailout arrangements for struggling
eurozone countries have placed upon German taxpayers has led to some incendiary
political divisions. Mrs Merkel has no desire to kindle further acrimony by
picking a fight with a Prime Minister who is more popular in Germany than the
headline crafters would allow you to think.

Just recently Germans have been reminded of how an all-powerful Chancellor,
Helmut Kohl, browbeat them into accepting the euro. "I acted like a dictator",
Kohl cynically admitted in an interview in 2002 that was released only last
week.

Opponents he branded as virtual "enemies of the state" in the late 1990s have
now formed a new party, Alternative for Germany, to kickstart a belated
discussion about what a return to the deutschmark might mean for Germany's
future.

The new party has to register at least 2,000 signatures in every one of
Germany's 16 federal states to be allowed to run in the national elections. Some
25 per cent of voters, according to a recent poll, have said that they might opt
for the Alternative come September. But only 5,000 of them have so far actually
signed up.

It is "the dread of something after death, / The undiscovered country from whose
bourn /No traveller returns" that puzzles the will of Germany's sceptical voters
as they contemplate life after the demise of the euro. At the same time they
deeply mistrust politicians, remembering how Mr Kohl coerced them into giving up
the deutschmark.

By contrast David Cameron, with his direct and open manner, is a leader after
the Germans' and Angela Merkel's own hearts. May their romance withstand the
slings and arrows of outrageous times.

Thomas Kielinger is the UK correspondent of Die Welt and author of Elizabeth II:
Das Leben der Queen

There is a secret army of Cameron followers in Germany

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ever-closer union? Mr Cameron with Mrs Merkel at Schloss Meseberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

No need for UKIP under Thatcher, says Farage;
No need for us if Thatcher had stayed, says UKIP leader

BYLINE: Billy Kenber

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 565 words


UKIP would not exist if Margaret Thatcher had survived the Tory leadership
contest of 1990, Nigel Farage has claimed.

In an article for The Times today, the UKIP leader argues that she would not
have allowed Britain to sign the Maastrict Treaty, which created the European
Union two years after she left office.

"Had Mrs Thatcher still been in power in 1992 there would have been a referendum
on that treaty, and the need for UKIP would probably have never arisen," he
writes.

His comments come amid increasing concern from Conservatives that the party is
out of touch with voters who consistently supported it during the Thatcher
years.

In other developments yesterday, it emerged that: ? Marco Pierre White, the
celebrity chef, Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, and senior generals will be
among the guests at Baroness Thatcher's funeral on Wednesday. ? The Bishop of
Grantham, her home town, criticised the scale of the event, describing it as
"asking for trouble". ? A £15 million Conservative training institute to
preserve the Thatcher legacy could be housed in the former Liberal Democrat
Party headquarters in Westminster.

Mr Farage says that it is "completely impossible, given her vehement opposition
to that [Maastricht] treaty, that there would not have been a UK referendum at
that time". There is no doubt that she would have "carried the country" in such
a vote.

He believes that Lady Thatcher would "want out" of the European Union, despite
having backed a 'yes' vote on membership of the Common Market in 1975. "The
difference between 1975 and now is that the hypothesis that Britain is better
off in the EU Continued on page 7, col 4

Continued from page 1 has been tested to destruction, and has been refuted by
bitter experience."

Mr Farage would not describe his party as the "heir to Thatcher" but says that
the "type of people" who supported her are attracted to UKIP.

The party secured its best by-election result in Eastleigh in February with 27.8
per cent of the vote. It has reached 17 per cent in national polls and attracted
support from several members of the Tories' £50,000-a-year donor club.

Tory backbenchers are increasingly concerned that David Cameron is failing to
appreciate the scale of the UKIP threat. He pledged last year to hold an in-out
vote on membership of the EU in 2017 if the Conservatives win the 2015 election.
Several Tories have urged him to go further with Douglas Carswell, MP for
Clacton, warning that "UKIP only needs to win 5 or 10 per cent of the popular
vote to make an absolute majority unobtainable for us". He called on Mr Cameron
to agree a deal with UKIP whereby it agreed not to contest seats where the
Tories held an open primary to choose candidates. "If we want the centre Right
to form a majority government ever again we need to work together [with UKIP],"
he said. "If we don't, then Margaret Thatcher's administration will be a
glorious but distant memory."

Conor Burns, the Bournemouth West MP and a friend of Lady Thatcher, said she had
"empathy" with UKIP supporters but "the simple fact is that Margaret Thatcher
was a Conservative all her life and died a Conservative. Whilst she and others
have a degree of empathy with those whose frustrations have led them to join
UKIP, she recognised that only the Conservative Party was a big enough vehicle
to achieve the changes she wanted to see."

Continued from page 1 has [...]

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Maggie would vote for getting out, out, out;
The former PM would look at the evidence and withdraw from the EU, says Nigel
Farage ; What would Thatcher do today about ... Europe

BYLINE: Nigel Farage

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 677 words


When speculating on what Margaret Thatcher would do if she was in power today,
it is essential to remember that she was a scientist. Not a theoretical
scientist but a real one - a research chemist who was no stranger to the
laboratory.

Everything in her politics was underpinned by the scientific method: the
formulation, testing and modification of hypotheses. And when evidence proved
received wisdom wrong, Mrs Thatcher was not afraid to change her mind.

So it was with her opinion on the Common Market and its evolution into the EU.
Just go to the Thatcher Foundation website and search "Common Market": her
dismissal of concerns about the loss of sovereignty in the late 1960s and 1970s
make her sound like Peter Mandelson today.

Her belief in the conventional wisdom culminated in that infamous picture of her
wearing her Joseph jumper of many flags, as she campaigned hard for a British
"Yes" vote in the 1975 referendum about whether to stay in.

The difference between 1975 and now is that the hypothesis that Britain is
better off in the EU has been tested to destruction, refuted by bitter
experience. So what would Mrs Thatcher do about Britain's relationship with the
EU if she was in power now? Her position would be very simple: she would want
out. The workings of the EU made it quite apparent to her that not only was it
going down the wrong track, but that it would be unreformable.

When she was in No 10 and began seriously to question the route that the UK had
set and she had followed, the "Brussels irregulars" in her own party, as Norman
Tebbit has so pithily called them, blocked her. Nonetheless, out of office she
was president of the Bruges Group, an organisation now dedicated to Britain's
withdrawal from the EU and her last book, Statecraft (2003), made some sharp
observations about the dangers of the European project: "What we should grasp
from the lessons of European history is that, first, there is nothing
necessarily benevolent about programmes of European integration; second, the
desire to achieve grand utopian plans often poses a grave threat to freedom ..."
The UK certainly wouldn't be in this current mess if she were in charge. Not
only would our negotiations on countless directives small and large have been
very different, we would never have signed up to the slew of post-Thatcher
treaties as they stood. Simply put, she would never have allowed it. She, unlike
the smaller men who have followed her, had the generosity of spirit to believe
that the people of this country are quite capable of setting their own course.
She, unlike today's hidebound elite, trusted the British people, their instincts
and their drive. Her whole career was about proving that the man in Whitehall
does not know best.

I was asked last week if UKIP would have been necessary if Mrs Thatcher had not
been overthrown before the Maastricht treaty. Had she still been in power in
1992 there would have been a referendum on that treaty, and the need for UKIP
would probably never have arisen.

What would she do today? She would trust the people and give them a say over the
heads of the Establishment. So she would offer an in/out referendum now - and
campaign hard for an "out" vote - to ascertain the will of the people.

There would be two practical options open to her in the event of a vote for
leaving. Either she would ask Parliament to repeal the European Communities Act,
or she would comply with Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union and make
clear the intention of British withdrawal before negotiating the details of
exit. That is, after all, what European law demands - and she understood the
law. She would have no truck with the deception being practised by the current
Government, in which both consulting the people and the withdrawal option are
afterthoughts.

Mrs Thatcher would follow the logic of what she knew to be true. As another
scientist once said while pointing to the evidence, "and yet it moves".

Nigel Farage is the leader of the UK Independence Party

Had Thatcher stayed, the need for UKIP would not have arisen

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shock news: Britain not isolated in Europe;
Cameron's successful visit to Germany shows that his eurosceptic views are
gaining ground

BYLINE: Thomas Kielinger

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 929 words


Angela and David - theirs must be one of the most eye-catching romances of
recent political history. Seven years ago they were locking horns because the
newly elected Tory leader had ordered his MEPs to leave the European People's
Party, where all right-minded conservatives are grouped together, Mrs Merkel's
Christian Democrats included, and join a new centre-right group of Cameron's own
creation.

If you could see them now... Over the weekend they celebrated a spring awakening
in each other's company, with Samantha, Joachim and the Cameron children thrown
in for good measure. What a metamorphosis. Never before has the PM taken his
entire family on a foreign trip with so much policy content, nor has Mrs Merkel
awarded such closeness to any other guest, foreign or German, at the German
government's official residence at Schloss Meseberg.

Now, it may be an axiom of political philosophy that nations don't have friends,
they have only interests. But it surely helps in this crisis-fraught age if the
protagonists manage to add friendship to networking and by doing so to reinforce
common purposes.

Headline-writers tend to overlook what unites people, prefering to go for the
drama of enmity and rupture of one kind or another. Thus it was with Mr
Cameron's EU speech in January that called for powers to be returned to the
national level. But little notice was taken of what the German Chancellor had
been saying that same week at Davos. Mrs Merkel, too, spoke of the need for the
EU to commit to reform to improve competitiveness and to reverse the deep
alienation Europeans feels towards the "union", a misnomer if ever there was
one.

On such issues Mr Cameron and Mrs Merkel are as one. Yet even on the vexatious
question of the "competences" London wants to repatriate from Brussels, the gap
between the two leaders is narrowing. The cacophony of abuse that greeted his
speech has in Germany given way to the murmur of second thoughts making
allegations of British isolation in Europe look misplaced.

Michael Meister, the deputy parliamentary chairman of Mrs Merkel's governing
party, was asked at the end of last week what the German Government thought
about Mr Cameron's much-maligned "review of competences" - the result of which
is to determine the in-or-out referendum the Prime Minster has promised to hold
in 2017.

"We need compromises," the Meister-singer avowed. "We are open for arguments."
Significantly, he admitted that "intensive discussions are taking place" about
the Prime Minister's ideas. That's exactly what the meeting in Meseberg was
about.

Whether a change in existing EU treaties is required, which Mrs Merkel et al are
absolutely set against, is much too early to tell. More importantly, thanks to
Mr Cameron's straight talking, tackling the long-identified "democracy deficit"
that risks wrecking the European project has acquired a new urgency. Setting
deadlines helps, too, even if David Cameron may himself be politically dead by
2017.

Mrs Merkel certainly has no wish to see her new British friend fall into the
European death trap. The chemistry between them is strongly enhanced by her
strategic conviction that for the EU to lose Britain but gain Croatia, Bulgaria
or Romania stands logic and good sense on its head.

But there is a domestic angle to her calculations as well. If she wants to
maintain her current popularity right up to the national elections in September
it is good politics to be moving closer to Mr Cameron and his ideas of open
markets and democratic accountability, rather than going for the more statist
French and their protectionist instincts.

There is a secret army of Cameron followers in Germany who applaud his
no-nonsense approach to the EU, which their own politicians rarely dare to
apply. Frustration with the onus the bailout arrangements for struggling
eurozone countries have placed upon German taxpayers has led to some incendiary
political divisions. Mrs Merkel has no desire to kindle further acrimony by
picking a fight with a Prime Minister who is more popular in Germany than the
headline crafters would allow you to think.

Just recently Germans have been reminded of how an all-powerful Chancellor,
Helmut Kohl, browbeat them into accepting the euro. "I acted like a dictator",
Kohl cynically admitted in an interview in 2002 that was released only last
week.

Opponents he branded as virtual "enemies of the state" in the late 1990s have
now formed a new party, Alternative for Germany, to kickstart a belated
discussion about what a return to the deutschmark might mean for Germany's
future.

The new party has to register at least 2,000 signatures in every one of
Germany's 16 federal states to be allowed to run in the national elections. Some
25 per cent of voters, according to a recent poll, have said that they might opt
for the Alternative come September. But only 5,000 of them have so far actually
signed up.

It is "the dread of something after death, / The undiscovered country from whose
bourn /No traveller returns" that puzzles the will of Germany's sceptical voters
as they contemplate life after the demise of the euro. At the same time they
deeply mistrust politicians, remembering how Mr Kohl coerced them into giving up
the deutschmark.

By contrast David Cameron, with his direct and open manner, is a leader after
the Germans' and Angela Merkel's own hearts. May their romance withstand the
slings and arrows of outrageous times.

Thomas Kielinger is the UK correspondent of Die Welt and author of Elizabeth II:
Das Leben der Queen

There is a secret army of Cameron followers in Germany

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ever-closer union? Mr Cameron with Mrs Merkel at Schloss Meseberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stay in EU but renegotiate the rules on jobs, say businessmen

BYLINE: Billy Kenber

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 326 words


Britain should stay in the EU but renegotiate the rules on employment and health
and safety, business groups say in a report due out today.

The British Chambers of Commerce asked more than 4,000 businesses if five
scenarios on EU membership would be positive or negative for business prospects.
Three options were staying in the EU: with no change, with further integration
or with renegotiation.

The others were total withdrawal or withdrawal with a trade agreement.

The option most widely seen as positive, at 64 per cent, was to stay in but
renegotiate the terms of membership. The option most widely seen as negative was
total withdrawal, at 60 per cent. Only 18 per cent said it would be good for
business.

But even weaker was support for staying in without renegotiating, at only 15 per
cent.

The report found that companies felt that employment, health and safety laws and
regional development policies were the most important areas for David Cameron to
negotiate a return of powers from the EU.

The survey indicates the business community's response to the Prime Minister's
promise in January to hold an in-out referendum on EU membership in 2017 if the
Conservatives won the next general election.

John Longworth, director-general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said the
survey was clear. "Companies believe that renegotiation, rather than further
integration or outright withdrawal, is most likely to deliver business and
economic benefit to the UK," he said, adding that the survey showed that UK
busineses "increasingly feel that some sort of change to Britain's relationship
with the EU is needed to boost our trading prospects".

The Government is reviewing powers that have been devolved to the EU as it tries
to renegotiate Britain's position. Mr Cameron met the German Chancellor, Angela
Merkel, at the weekend to discuss possible reforms.

Downing Street said that the pair agreed on the "urgent need" to make the EU
more competitive and flexible.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Baroness Thatcher;
Lives remembered

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 519 words


Professor David Norman writes: Not mentioned in your life of Baroness Thatcher
(obituary, Apr 9) was that she was proud of her scientific training, rare among
British politicians, and maintained an interest in scientific research
throughout her life.

I had first-hand experience in July 1990 when her holiday travel plans were due
to take her past Daresbury Laboratory in Cheshire, home of the world's first
synchrotron light source. We were given one day's notice that she would visit
for an hour to see some science in action. As a relatively junior physicist at
the time, I was selected to show her my experiments on the surface structure of
thermionic cathodes while a biologist colleague demonstrated his X-ray studies
of how muscles work. The Prime Minister seemed thrilled to be surrounded by
young scientists, and especially to  that some British research was leading the
world. We were amazed to be told that every year she asked for her red box of
"holiday reading" always to include some recent scientific papers.

Robert Elphick writes: Baroness Thatcher was renowned for her immaculate
appearance however stressful the event. I met her first in Luxembourg just after
she had won the Tory party leadership. The 1975 referendum was looming and Mrs
Thatcher, as she then was, made her debut on the European stage. As the BBC's
man at the time, I was down to do the TV interview of her first impressions of
meeting the Members of the European Parliament, all Tories because the Labour
Party was boycotting the institution at the time.

We met in a crowded and very noisy room at a buffet lunch. We sat her down in a
corner and lighted the primitive set. "This is really important," she said in a
small almost girlish voice. I reassured her and asked whether she was ready. She
nodded and I began with a few words. She interrupted suddenly. "Where's the
camera?" she asked. I explained that it was that black hole she could see not
far away under the lights. "Oh, I cannot be filmed from this side," she said.
"We'll have to start again." There was an audible oath from my cameraman who was
using a limited roll of film, but we re-lighted the whole thing in no time; sat
her round so that her preferred profile was visible and she was word perfect.

The Rev Dr Derek Stanesby writes: As a canon of St George's Chapel, Windsor
Castle (1985-1997) I was invited to attend one of the Queen's garden parties at
Buckingham Palace each summer. It was traditional for the Queen, with other
members of the Royal Family, to appear on the steps of the Palace and slowly
make her way through the two lines of loyal and enthusiastic guests that formed
around her.

On one of these occasions I noticed a second wave of enthusiastic guests running
parallel to the Queen's procession, greeting what appeared to be another regal
figure. It was none other than the Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, holding
court.

If you would like to add a personal view or recollection to a published
obituary, you can send your contribution by post to Times Obituaries, 3 Thomas
More Square, London E98 1TT, or by e-mail to tributes@thetimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

No need for UKIP under Thatcher, says Farage;
No need for us if Thatcher had stayed, says UKIP leader

BYLINE: Billy Kenber

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 565 words


UKIP would not exist if Margaret Thatcher had survived the Tory leadership
contest of 1990, Nigel Farage has claimed.

In an article for The Times today, the UKIP leader argues that she would not
have allowed Britain to sign the Maastrict Treaty, which created the European
Union two years after she left office.

"Had Mrs Thatcher still been in power in 1992 there would have been a referendum
on that treaty, and the need for UKIP would probably have never arisen," he
writes.

His comments come amid increasing concern from Conservatives that the party is
out of touch with voters who consistently supported it during the Thatcher
years.

In other developments yesterday, it emerged that: ? Marco Pierre White, the
celebrity chef, Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, and senior generals will be
among the guests at Baroness Thatcher's funeral on Wednesday. ? The Bishop of
Grantham, her home town, criticised the scale of the event, describing it as
"asking for trouble". ? A £15 million Conservative training institute to
preserve the Thatcher legacy could be housed in the former Liberal Democrat
Party headquarters in Westminster.

Mr Farage says that it is "completely impossible, given her vehement opposition
to that [Maastricht] treaty, that there would not have been a UK referendum at
that time". There is no doubt that she would have "carried the country" in such
a vote.

He believes that Lady Thatcher would "want out" of the European Union, despite
having backed a 'yes' vote on membership of the Common Market in 1975. "The
difference between 1975 and now is that the hypothesis that Britain is better
off in the EU Continued on page 7, col 4

Continued from page 1 has been tested to destruction, and has been refuted by
bitter experience."

Mr Farage would not describe his party as the "heir to Thatcher" but says that
the "type of people" who supported her are attracted to UKIP.

The party secured its best by-election result in Eastleigh in February with 27.8
per cent of the vote. It has reached 17 per cent in national polls and attracted
support from several members of the Tories' £50,000-a-year donor club.

Tory backbenchers are increasingly concerned that David Cameron is failing to
appreciate the scale of the UKIP threat. He pledged last year to hold an in-out
vote on membership of the EU in 2017 if the Conservatives win the 2015 election.
Several Tories have urged him to go further with Douglas Carswell, MP for
Clacton, warning that "UKIP only needs to win 5 or 10 per cent of the popular
vote to make an absolute majority unobtainable for us". He called on Mr Cameron
to agree a deal with UKIP whereby it agreed not to contest seats where the
Tories held an open primary to choose candidates. "If we want the centre Right
to form a majority government ever again we need to work together [with UKIP],"
he said. "If we don't, then Margaret Thatcher's administration will be a
glorious but distant memory."

Conor Burns, the Bournemouth West MP and a friend of Lady Thatcher, said she had
"empathy" with UKIP supporters but "the simple fact is that Margaret Thatcher
was a Conservative all her life and died a Conservative. Whilst she and others
have a degree of empathy with those whose frustrations have led them to join
UKIP, she recognised that only the Conservative Party was a big enough vehicle
to achieve the changes she wanted to see."

Continued from page 1 has [...]

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Thatcher 'to blame' for British split on Europe;
Ex-German leader reveals years of conflict ; Thatcher 'to blame' for EU split

BYLINE: David Charter; Michael Savage; Valentine Low

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 702 words


Margaret Thatcher's views on Europe are to blame for the continued antagonism in
the way Britain deals with Brussels, one of her greatest adversaries has
claimed.

Helmut Kohl, who as German Chancellor clashed repeatedly with the then Prime
Minister over European issues during the 1980s, used an interview with The Times
to praise her courage and honesty.

But he also conceded that their drastically differing views on Europe prevented
them from forming a trusting relationship, and the after-effects are still being
felt today on both sides of the English Channel.

"It is true - Margaret Thatcher was difficult, just as our relationship was
difficult," Mr Kohl, 83, said.

"Unlike with other leaders in Europe and the world, and despite the best efforts
of both sides, Margaret and I simply never managed to build a trusting and warm
relationship. "[She] wanted Europe, but a different Europe from that wanted by
most of her European colleagues and me. From our point of view, this antagonism
characterises British policy on Europe to this day."

His assessment came as the battle over the legacy of Baroness Thatcher, who died
on Monday aged 87, began in earnest yesterday with passionate exchanges in
Parliament.

Her supporters said that she had grown frustrated by Europe, an issue which
divides the Tories more than 20 years later, as it expanded beyond the creation
of a single market for trade.

Sir Gerald Howarth, the Tory MP for Cannock & Burntwood, said she came to
believe that she had been betrayed as the European project expanded.

Sir Tony Baldry, who assisted her in the successful "Yes" campaign in the 1975
EU referendum, said that she "believed in a strong Europe being a counterweight
to the then Soviet Union". But he added that she had become frustrated at
European nations attempting to rewrite EU rules for their own particular
nationalist interests".

David Cameron led the tributes, describing the former Prime Minister as a leader
who made Britain great again. Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, described her as
the politician who defined her age.

But Glenda Jackson, the Labour MP for Hampstead & Kilburn, accused Lady Thatcher
of unleashing policies that had wreaked heinous damage on Britain.

Outside Lady Thatcher's home in London her son Sir Mark Thatcher spoke in public
for the first time since her death to say that the family was "enormously proud"
that the Queen had agreed to attend the funeral at St Paul's Cathedral next
Wednesday.

"I know my mother would be greatly honoured as well as humbled by her presence."
He added that his family Continued on page 6, col 1

Continued from page 1 had been overwhelmed by the messages of support that had
come from people in all walks of life.

As more details of the funeral arrangements were announced, the first names on
the guest list emerged. F. W. de Klerk, the last President of apartheid South
Africa, who ordered the release of Nelson Mandela, will attend as a guest of the
Thatcher family, his spokesman said.

The former prime ministers Tony Blair and Gordon Brown will also be present.

Nancy Reagan's spokeswoman said that although she was heartbroken over Lady
Thatcher's death, she would not be able to attend. "Unfortunately, she is no
longer able to make that kind of a trip," the spokeswoman added.

In line with Lady Thatcher's wish that the military should play a leading part
in the funeral, No 10 revealed that 700 military personnel will be involved.

While the procession is taking place, the Honourable Artillery Company will fire
a gun every minute from Tower Wharf at the Tower of London.

The coffin will be carried into the cathedral by a bearer party made up of all
three services and will include personnel from ships, units and regiments that
were "notable for their service during the Falklands campaign". William Hague,
the Foreign Secretary, dismissed suggestions that the taxpayer should not have
to pay for the service. "When it comes to money, the rebate she negotiated for
this country from the EU has brought us so far £75 billion ... which is twice
the size of our annual defence budget. I think that puts money in perspective
... so I think we can afford to contribute to a funeral," he said.

Continued from page 1 had [...]

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Mark Thatcher, speaking at his mother's home in Belgravia
yesterday, said that his family had been overwhelmed by messages of support
since her death
CHRIS HARRIS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Thatcher 'to blame' for British split on Europe;
Ex-German leader reveals years of conflict Thatcher 'to blame' for EU split

BYLINE: David Charter; Michael Savage; Valentine Low

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 684 words


Margaret Thatcher's views on Europe are to blame for the continued antagonism in
the way Britain deals with Brussels, one of her greatest adversaries has
claimed.

Helmut Kohl, who as German Chancellor clashed repeatedly during the 1980s with
the Prime Minister over European issues, used an interview with The Times to
praise her courage and honesty.

But he also conceded that their drastically differing views on Europe prevented
them from forming a trusting relationship, and that the after-effects are still
being felt today on both sides of the Channel.

"It is true - Margaret Thatcher was difficult, just as our relationship was
difficult," Mr Kohl, 83, said.

"Unlike with other leaders in Europe and the world, and despite the best efforts
of both sides, Margaret and I simply never managed to build a trusting and warm
relationship. "[She] wanted Europe, but a different Europe from that wanted by
most of her European colleagues and me. From our point of view, this antagonism
characterises British policy on Europe to this day."

His assessment came as the battle over the legacy of Baroness Thatcher, who died
on Monday aged 87, began in earnest yesterday with passionate exchanges in
Parliament.

Her supporters said that she had grown frustrated by Europe, an issue that
divides the Conservatives more than 30 years later, as it expanded beyond the
creation of a single market for trade. Sir Gerald Howarth, the Tory MP for
Cannock & Burntwood, said she came to believe that she had been betrayed as the
European project expanded.

Sir Tony Baldry, who assisted her in the successful "Yes" campaign in the 1975
EU referendum, said that she "believed in a strong Europe being a counterweight
to the Soviet Union". But he added that she had become frustrated at European
nations attempting to rewrite EU rules for their own particular nationalist
interests".

David Cameron led the tributes, describing the former Prime Minister as a leader
who made Britain great again. Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, described her as
the politician who defined her age.

But Glenda Jackson, the Labour MP for Hampstead & Kilburn, accused Lady Thatcher
of unleashing policies that had wreaked heinous damage.

Outside Lady Thatcher's home in London her son, Sir Mark, spoke in public for
the first time since her death to say that the family was "enormously proud"
that the Queen had agreed to attend the funeral at St Paul's Cathedral next
Wednesday.

"I know my mother would be greatly honoured as well as humbled by her presence."
He added that his family had been overwhelmed by the messages of support that
had come from people in all walks of life.

As more details of the funeral arrangements were announced, the first names on
the guest list emerged. F. W. de Klerk, the last President of apartheid South
Africa, who ordered the release of Nelson Mandela, will attend as a guest of the
Thatcher family, his spokesman said.

The former prime ministers Tony Blair and Gordon Brown will also be present.

Nancy Reagan's spokeswoman said that although she was heartbroken over Lady
Thatcher's death, she would not be able to attend. "Unfortunately, she is no
longer able to make that kind of a trip," the spokeswoman added.

In line with Lady Thatcher's wish that the military should play a leading part
in the funeral, No 10 revealed that 700 military personnel will be involved.

While the procession is taking place, the Honourable Artillery Company will fire
a gun every minute from Tower Wharf at the Tower of London.

The coffin will be carried into the cathedral by a bearer party made up of all
three services and will include personnel from ships, units and regiments that
were "notable for their service during the Falklands campaign".

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, dismissed suggestions that the taxpayer
should not have to pay for the service. "When it comes to money, the rebate she
negotiated for this country from the EU has brought us so far £75 billion ...
which is twice the size of our annual defence budget. I think that puts money in
perspective ... so I think we can afford to contribute to a funeral," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Mark Thatcher, speaking at his mother's home in Belgravia
yesterday, said that his family had been overwhelmed by messages of support
since her death
CHRIS HARRIS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Thatcher 'to blame' for British split on Europe;
Ex-German leader reveals years of conflict ; Thatcher 'to blame' for EU split

BYLINE: David Charter; Michael Savage; Valentine Low

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 698 words


Margaret Thatcher's views on Europe are to blame for the continued antagonism in
the way Britain deals with Brussels, one of her greatest adversaries has
claimed.

Helmut Kohl, who as German Chancellor clashed repeatedly during the 1980s with
the Prime Minister over European issues, used an interview with The Times to
praise her courage and honesty.

But he also conceded that their drastically differing views on Europe prevented
them from forming a trusting relationship, and that the after-effects are still
being felt today on both sides of the Channel.

"It is true - Margaret Thatcher was difficult, just as our relationship was
difficult," Mr Kohl, 83, said.

"Unlike with other leaders in Europe and the world, and despite the best efforts
of both sides, Margaret and I simply never managed to build a trusting and warm
relationship. "[She] wanted Europe, but a different Europe from that wanted by
most of her European colleagues and me. From our point of view, this antagonism
characterises British policy on Europe to this day."

His assessment came as the battle over the legacy of Baroness Thatcher, who died
on Monday aged 87, began in earnest yesterday with passionate exchanges in
Parliament.

Her supporters said that she had grown frustrated by Europe, an issue that
divides the Conservatives more than 30 years later, as it expanded beyond the
creation of a single market for trade. Sir Gerald Howarth, the Tory MP for
Cannock & Burntwood, said she came to believe that she had been betrayed as the
European project expanded.

Sir Tony Baldry, who assisted her in the successful "Yes" campaign in the 1975
EU referendum, said that she "believed in a strong Europe being a counterweight
to the Soviet Union". But he added that she had become frustrated at European
nations attempting to rewrite EU rules for their own particular nationalist
interests".

David Cameron led the tributes, describing the former Prime Minister as a leader
who made Britain great again. Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, described her as
the politician who defined her age.

But Glenda Jackson, the Labour MP for Hampstead & Kilburn, accused Lady Thatcher
of unleashing policies that had wreaked heinous damage.

Outside Lady Thatcher's home in London her son, Sir Mark, spoke in public for
the first time since her death to say that the family was "enormously proud"
that the Queen had agreed to attend the funeral at St Paul's Cathedral next
Wednesday.

"I know my mother would be greatly honoured as well as humbled by her presence."
He added that his family Continued on page 6, col 1

Continued from page 1 had been overwhelmed by the messages of support that had
come from people in all walks of life.

As more details of the funeral arrangements were announced, the first names on
the guest list emerged. F. W. de Klerk, the last President of apartheid South
Africa, who ordered the release of Nelson Mandela, will attend as a guest of the
Thatcher family, his spokesman said.

The former prime ministers Tony Blair and Gordon Brown will also be present.

Nancy Reagan's spokeswoman said that although she was heartbroken over Lady
Thatcher's death, she would not be able to attend. "Unfortunately, she is no
longer able to make that kind of a trip," the spokeswoman added.

In line with Lady Thatcher's wish that the military should play a leading part
in the funeral, No 10 revealed that 700 military personnel will be involved.

While the procession is taking place, the Honourable Artillery Company will fire
a gun every minute from Tower Wharf at the Tower of London.

The coffin will be carried into the cathedral by a bearer party made up of all
three services and will include personnel from ships, units and regiments that
were "notable for their service during the Falklands campaign". William Hague,
the Foreign Secretary, dismissed suggestions that the taxpayer should not have
to pay for the service. "When it comes to money, the rebate she negotiated for
this country from the EU has brought us so far £75 billion ... which is twice
the size of our annual defence budget. I think that puts money in perspective
... so I think we can afford to contribute to a funeral," he said.

Continued from page 1 had [...]

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Mark Thatcher, speaking at his mother's home in Belgravia
yesterday, said that his family had been overwhelmed by messages of support
since her death
CHRIS HARRIS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 9, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Attitudes to Europe continue to define UK's relationship

BYLINE: Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 500 words


Over two decades since she left office, the spirit of Baroness Thatcher
continues to define Britain's attitude to the European Union.

In opposition, Margaret Thatcher may have campaigned enthusiastically for
continued British membership in the Labour-organised referendum of 1975, but
within weeks of winning power she had opened an offensive against the federalist
dream that would trigger her downfall in 1990.

Her attempts to reclaim sovereignty and halt the drift of power towards Brussels
have set the tone for David Cameron's Europe policy and furnished the best lines
for Tory Eurosceptics and much of the British media. This may have led to the
doubleedged tribute paid by José Manuel Barroso, the President of the European
Commission, yesterday.

"Her legacy has done much to shape the United Kingdom as we know it today,
including the special role of the United Kingdom in the European Union that
endures to this day," the successor to Mrs Thatcher's bête noire, Jacques
Delors, said.

In 1979, the newly-elected Mrs Thatcher's demand for a new budget deal was
dismissed as a tantrum by Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, the French President, and
Helmut Schmidt, the German Chancellor.

When she later raised her voice with François Mitterrand, Mr Giscard's
successor, he dismissed her with: "Ah, Madame, you are not the only one who is
poor." She triumphed at a summit in Fontainebleau in 1984, gaining a British
rebate that is written into law.

Mrs Thatcher was a strong supporter of the single market, which she helped to
create, and later a champion of the European Community's successful expansion to
the east, but her suspicions of the "ever-closer union" dominated her attitude
to Brussels.

She set these out in a speech in the Belgian city of Bruges in 1988 that remains
canonical for the EU's adversaries: "It is ironic that just when those countries
such as the Soviet Union, which have tried to run everything from the centre,
are learning that success depends on dispersing power and decisions away from
the centre, there are some in the community who seem to want to move in the
opposite direction.

"We have not successfully rolled back the frontiers of the State in Britain only
to see them reimposed at a European level with a European superstate exercising
a new dominance from Brussels." Those words were too much for the pro-Europeans
in the Cabinet and two years later, in 1990, she was deemed by colleagues to
have gone too far when she told the House of Commons: "The President of the
Commission, Monsieur Delors, said at a press conference the other day that he
wanted the European Parliament to be the democratic body of the Community, he
wanted the Commission to be the executive and he wanted the Council of Ministers
to be the Senate. No, No, No."

There followed a Cabinet coup that led to her replacement by John Major. He
signed up to the Maastricht treaty that created the European Union a year later
after winning a British optout from the single currency that would become the
euro.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Thatcher on a tank during a visit to British forces in
Fallingbostel, in Germany, in 1986

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 9, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Attitudes to Europe continue to define UK's relationship

BYLINE: Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 500 words


Over two decades since she left office, the spirit of Baroness Thatcher
continues to define Britain's attitude to the European Union.

In opposition, Margaret Thatcher may have campaigned enthusiastically for
continued British membership in the Labour-organised referendum of 1975, but
within weeks of winning power she had opened an offensive against the federalist
dream that would trigger her downfall in 1990.

Her attempts to reclaim sovereignty and halt the drift of power towards Brussels
have set the tone for David Cameron's Europe policy and furnished the best lines
for Tory Eurosceptics and much of the British media. This may have led to the
doubleedged tribute paid by José Manuel Barroso, the President of the European
Commission, yesterday.

"Her legacy has done much to shape the United Kingdom as we know it today,
including the special role of the United Kingdom in the European Union that
endures to this day," the successor to Mrs Thatcher's bête noire, Jacques
Delors, said.

In 1979, the newly-elected Mrs Thatcher's demand for a new budget deal was
dismissed as a tantrum by Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, the French President, and
Helmut Schmidt, the German Chancellor.

When she later raised her voice with François Mitterrand, Mr Giscard's
successor, he dismissed her with: "Ah, Madame, you are not the only one who is
poor." She triumphed at a summit in Fontainebleau in 1984, gaining a British
rebate that is written into law.

Mrs Thatcher was a strong supporter of the single market, which she helped to
create, and later a champion of the European Community's successful expansion to
the east, but her suspicions of the "ever-closer union" dominated her attitude
to Brussels.

She set these out in a speech in the Belgian city of Bruges in 1988 that remains
canonical for the EU's adversaries: "It is ironic that just when those countries
such as the Soviet Union, which have tried to run everything from the centre,
are learning that success depends on dispersing power and decisions away from
the centre, there are some in the community who seem to want to move in the
opposite direction.

"We have not successfully rolled back the frontiers of the State in Britain only
to see them reimposed at a European level with a European superstate exercising
a new dominance from Brussels." Those words were too much for the pro-Europeans
in the Cabinet and two years later, in 1990, she was deemed by colleagues to
have gone too far when she told the House of Commons: "The President of the
Commission, Monsieur Delors, said at a press conference the other day that he
wanted the European Parliament to be the democratic body of the Community, he
wanted the Commission to be the executive and he wanted the Council of Ministers
to be the Senate. No, No, No."

There followed a Cabinet coup that led to her replacement by John Major. He
signed up to the Maastricht treaty that created the European Union a year later
after winning a British optout from the single currency that would become the
euro.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Thatcher on a tank during a visit to British forces in
Fallingbostel, in Germany, in 1986

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 9, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Attitudes to Europe continue to define UK's relationship

BYLINE: Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 496 words


More than two decades after she left office, the spirit of Baroness Thatcher
continues to define Britain's attitude to the European Union.

In opposition, Margaret Thatcher may have campaigned enthusiastically for
continued British membership in the Labour-organised referendum of 1975, but
within weeks of winning power she had opened an offensive against the federalist
dream that would trigger her downfall in 1990.

Her attempts to reclaim sovereignty and halt the drift of power towards Brussels
have set the tone for David Cameron's Europe policy and furnished the best lines
for Tory Eurosceptics and much of the British media. This may have led to the
doubleedged tribute paid by José Manuel Barroso, the President of the European
Commission, yesterday.

"Her legacy has done much to shape the United Kingdom as we know it today,
including the special role of the United Kingdom in the European Union that
endures to this day," the successor to Mrs Thatcher's bête noire, Jacques
Delors, said.

In 1979 the newly elected Mrs Thatcher's demand for a new budget deal was
dismissed as a tantrum by President Giscard d'Estaing of France and Helmut
Schmidt, the German Chancellor.

When she later raised her voice with President Mitterrand, Mr Giscard's
successor, he dismissed her with: "Ah, Madame, you are not the only one who is
poor." She triumphed at a summit in Fontainebleau in 1984, gaining a British
rebate that is written into law.

Mrs Thatcher was a strong supporter of the single market, which she helped to
create, and later a champion of the European Community's successful expansion to
the east, but her suspicions of the "ever-closer union" dominated her attitude
to Brussels. She set these out in a speech in the Belgian city of Bruges in 1988
that remains canonical for the EU's adversaries: "It is ironic that just when
those countries such as the Soviet Union, which have tried to run everything
from the centre, are learning that success depends on dispersing power and
decisions away from the centre, there are some in the community who seem to want
to move in the opposite direction. We have not successfully rolled back the
frontiers of the State in Britain only to see them reimposed at a European level
with a European superstate exercising a new dominance from Brussels."

Those words were too much for the pro-Europeans in the Cabinet and two years
later she was deemed by colleagues to have gone too far when she told the
Commons: "The President of the Commission, Monsieur Delors, said at a press
conference the other day that he wanted the European Parliament to be the
democratic body of the Community, he wanted the Commission to be the executive
and he wanted the Council of Ministers to be the Senate.

No, No, No."

There followed a Cabinet coup that led to her replacement by John Major. He
signed up to the Maastricht treaty that created the European Union a year later
after winning a British optout from the single currency that would become the
euro.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Thatcher on a tank during a visit to British forces in
Fallingbostel, in Germany, in 1986

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              April 8, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Support is wafer-thin, Cameron warns EU

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 455 words


David Cameron will warn his fellow European leaders today that Britain's
"wafer-thin" support for remaining in the EU risks disappearing entirely unless
he is allowed to draw up a new relationship with Europe.

The Prime Minister's dire assessment comes as he begins a tour of Europe in an
attempt to rescue his faltering plan to renegotiate Britain's relationship with
the EU.

He will travel to Madrid and Paris today, before heading for a crucial meeting
with Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, this week.

Both Paris and Berlin have signalled that they are not minded to help him to
secure a new deal. But during his meetings today Mr Cameron will warn that he
cannot guarantee that voters will support Britain's place within the EU unless a
new relationship is secured.

It comes after Mr Cameron tried to end a civil war within the Tory Party by
promising to secure a "diverse, competitive, democratically accountable Europe".
He has also pledged to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU in
2017 if he wins the next general election.

However, President Hollande and Ms Merkel have signalled that they will not make
it easy for him. It is understood that Ms Merkel is keen to avoid creating a new
EU treaty, which Mr Cameron would be likely to need to loosen Britain's ties
with Europe. Both have also snubbed an offer to take part in a study being
conducted by William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, over the powers that should
be returned from Brussels to the parliaments of EU member states.

In an interview with five European newspapers, Mr Cameron said that he was
relaxed about their decision to decline the invitation to take part in the
review. But he warned of the consequences if Britain was blocked from changing
its relationship with the EU.

"I think the best outcome for Britain is our membership of a reformed European
Union," he said.

"Consent for Britain's membership of the European Union, and all the ways that
it's changed, has become wafer-thin in Britain. And politicians, if they do
their job properly, have to recognise this fact rather than try to brush it
under the carpet.

"The fact is that in British politics, the fact that parties and governments
year after year promised referendums, didn't hold referendums when they could
have done, that damaged consent for Britain's membership of the European Union
and there's no good wishing that away. It exists. It's a fact."

Hitting back at Berlin, he also said he was in no doubt that a new treaty would
have to be drawn up well before his promised 2017 referendum.

"I think there will be treaty change," he said. "I'm absolutely convinced that
there will be the need to reopen at some stage these treaties, not least to
solve the problem of the eurozone."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 316 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              April 8, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Support is wafer-thin, Cameron warns EU

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 455 words


David Cameron will warn his fellow European leaders today that Britain's
"wafer-thin" support for remaining in the EU risks disappearing entirely unless
he is allowed to draw up a new relationship with Europe.

The Prime Minister's dire assessment comes as he begins a tour of Europe in an
attempt to rescue his faltering plan to renegotiate Britain's relationship with
the EU.

He will travel to Madrid and Paris today, before heading for a crucial meeting
with Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, this week.

Both Paris and Berlin have signalled that they are not minded to help him to
secure a new deal. But during his meetings today Mr Cameron will warn that he
cannot guarantee that voters will support Britain's place within the EU unless a
new relationship is secured.

It comes after Mr Cameron tried to end a civil war within the Tory Party by
promising to secure a "diverse, competitive, democratically accountable Europe".
He has also pledged to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU in
2017 if he wins the next general election.

However, President Hollande and Ms Merkel have signalled that they will not make
it easy for him. It is understood that Ms Merkel is keen to avoid creating a new
EU treaty, which Mr Cameron would be likely to need to loosen Britain's ties
with Europe. Both have also snubbed an offer to take part in a study being
conducted by William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, over the powers that should
be returned from Brussels to the parliaments of EU member states.

In an interview with five European newspapers, Mr Cameron said that he was
relaxed about their decision to decline the invitation to take part in the
review. But he warned of the consequences if Britain was blocked from changing
its relationship with the EU.

"I think the best outcome for Britain is our membership of a reformed European
Union," he said.

"Consent for Britain's membership of the European Union, and all the ways that
it's changed, has become wafer-thin in Britain. And politicians, if they do
their job properly, have to recognise this fact rather than try to brush it
under the carpet.

"The fact is that in British politics, the fact that parties and governments
year after year promised referendums, didn't hold referendums when they could
have done, that damaged consent for Britain's membership of the European Union
and there's no good wishing that away. It exists. It's a fact."

Hitting back at Berlin, he also said he was in no doubt that a new treaty would
have to be drawn up well before his promised 2017 referendum.

"I think there will be treaty change," he said. "I'm absolutely convinced that
there will be the need to reopen at some stage these treaties, not least to
solve the problem of the eurozone."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
