
                               1 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 29, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

As Cassandra might have put it -don't say I didn't warn you

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1302 words


More than once this year, as I have continued to report on some of this column's
favourite themes, I have thought back to the days, long ago, when my satirical
"Way of the World" column in The Daily Telegraph was illustrated by a cartoonist
just starting on the paper called Matthew Pritchett. Already, young Matt was
showing signs of why he would later become a national treasure. But one drawing
in particular, in 1989, was based on an item in which I mocked the way, even
then, that the BBC was regularly entertaining us with scary documentaries about
how global warming would bring about the end of the world.

I suggested to Matt a picture of the prophetess Cassandra standing amid the
smoking ruins of Troy, holding up a placard reading: "Remember, folks, you heard
it here first". The point about Cassandra's dire predictions, of course, was
that no one ever believed them until they came true - a fate too often shared,
alas, by this column.

THE LIGHTS WILL STAY ON

One story of 2013 provided an odd twist to this theme. Just when everyone else
finally piled in to predict one particular disaster I had been warning of for
years, I had to say, "Hang on, folks, you're all missing something. Maybe there
isn't going to be a disaster after all."

It was back in 2002 that I first reported here on the madness of skewing our
energy policy round building thousands of absurdly inefficient and expensive
wind turbines. In 2006 I began warning that this might well lead to our lights
going out, for the obvious reason that, the more wind farms we built, the more
we would need conventional power stations to provide back-up for all the times
when there was not enough wind - just at a time when so many of those proper,
reliable power stations were heading towards closure.

But it was not until this year, after several more large coal-fired plants shut
down, that an Ofgem report set off a general panic that this was so reducing the
safety margin of the grid that we might soon face major power cuts.

What everyone was missing, as I noted here on July 7, was Ofgem's claim that it
nevertheless now had "the tools" available to keep the lights on. One reason for
its confidence was that the National Grid had quietly been using new computer
technology to hook up thousands of diesel generators, at colossal expense, to
provide enough emergency power to compensate instantly for any loss of power
from that ever-growing number of wind farms. So part of the answer to the
central flaw in the drive to provide us with "zerocarbon" wind energy is to use
dozens of "mini power plants", driven by diesel and pumping out CO2.

Meanwhile, Britain's energy bills continue to soar, largely due to the
everrising cost of that "green energy" forced upon us by a Climate Change Act
steered through Parliament by Ed Miliband, who now wants to halt price rises
made inevitable by his own policy.

GLOBAL WARMING POSTPONED

It was in 2007 that I first began reporting here that the greatest scare story
of our time - the threat posed to the planet by "human-induced climate change" -
was falling apart. The "science" promoted by the International Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) was being shamelessly fiddled. Its computer model projections -
many derived from our own Met Office - were already being disproved by what was
actually happening in the real world. Politically, there was no more chance of
getting countries such as China and India to agree to curb those "carbon
emissions" than there had been at Kyoto in 1997, as was confirmed by the fiasco
at Copenhagen in 2009.

In 2013, following years when the Met Office's predictions of "barbecue summers"
and "warmer winters" had made it a laughing stock, the IPCC's latest
mega-report, which claimed that the great global-warming disaster was more
likely than ever, faded so fast from the headlines that it might not have
bothered.

Yet still those "true believers" at the BBC continue to peddle their group-think
delusions, as when the Today programme yet again last week wheeled on its tame
snail expert, Prof Steve Jones, to repeat, unchallenged, his bizarre claim that
the only mistake the BBC makes in its climate coverage is to insist that,
whenever it interviews a "climate scientist", it must also give equal airtime to
a "denier". How odd then, that, as usual, Today didn't seem able to find a
single "denier" - "clowns led by crooks" he called us - to argue for our belief,
as he kindly put it, that "the Earth is flat".

THE EU SURGES ON, DESPITE MR CAMERON'S PLEDGE

It has been argued here for so long that the British seem incapable of grasping
the realities of the "European project", that it was hardly surprising when
David Cameron came up with his pledge: that, after winning the next election, he
will somehow persuade the EU to hand us back various unnamed powers of
selfgovernment, and then in 2017 lead the "Yes" campaign in an In/Out referendum
.

As I have often pointed out, the only way Britain could hope to get the "new
relationship" with the EU Cameron claims to want, while allowing us to continue
trading freely in the Single Market, would be to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon
Treaty, the exit clause. But this he has already ruled out.

Bang on cue, Brussels and Angela Merkel are now confirming that Mr Cameron is
living in a "Little England" dream world. They do indeed have a new treaty in
mind, due to be unveiled next year, not to accommodate his wishful thinking but
to take the EU another major step towards becoming an all-powerful "government
of Europe".

Under the rules, this process will require a full-scale "Convention", starting
in 2015, followed by an Intergovernmental Conference, all of which will take us
way past that 2017 deadline. Whoever at that time is Britain's prime minister
will then, by law, have to hold a referendum on whether the British people
accept a treaty which could well consign us to being just second-class,
"associate members" of a club that none of our party leaders, apart from Nigel
Farage, wishes us to leave. Yet again, our failure to understand the reality of
what the EU is about will bring us rudely back to earth.

OPENING UP OUR SECRET FAMILY COURTS

It was in 2009 that I first began reporting here on how the secrecy of our
"child protection" system had allowed it to become corrupted into arguably the
most disturbing scandal in Britain today, removing thousands of children from
their parents for no good reason.

This year began with one High Court judge, Mr Justice Mostyn, threatening me
with prison if I continued to mention a case where I believed he had been
treating one mother with serious injustice. But as more families continued to be
torn apart than ever before, 2013 ended with the enlightened new head of the
family courts, Lord Justice Munby, issuing his most trenchant call yet for our
child protection system to be opened up to "the glare of publicity".

This was after he had personally taken over the extraordinary case, first
reported here but then publicised across the world, of the visiting Italian
mother who, on the secret orders of Mr Justice Mostyn, had been forced to have
her baby delivered by caesarean section and then to be handed over to social
workers without allowing her to know what was happening.

As Munby has now repeatedly made clear, it is the wall of secrecy the system has
built around itself that has allowed so many abuses and injustices to flourish.
In this respect, as in the continued disintegration of the scare over global
warming and the increasing mess the European project is bringing on itself, as
the failure of the euro drives it on to ever greater integration, 2013 has at
least seen some progress. Glimmerings of reality are at last beginning to break
in on some of the greater follies of our time.

On which note, may I wish all my readers a rather happier New Year.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No one ever believed Cassandra's dire predictions until they came true

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 29, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

72 pc of Britons want ban on new wave of migrants

BYLINE: STEVEN SWINFORD ; TIM ROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 767 words


SEVEN IN 10 Britons believe David Cameron, the Prime Minister, should keep
restrictions on Romanian and Bulgarian migrants even if it means breaking
European Union laws, according to a poll for The Sunday Telegraph.

The ICM survey found that the public overwhelmingly backs the call by dozens of
Conservative rebels for the Government to ban migrants from both countries
coming to Britain for at least another five years.

The findings come amid fears that hundreds of thousands of migrants could arrive
from Romania and Bulgaria - the EU's poorest countries - when restrictions are
lifted on Wednesday.

More than 70 Tories have called on Mr Cameron to ban migrants from both
countries coming to Britain until at least 2019 because of concerns over the
pressure they will put on the NHS, the jobs market and the welfare state.

The poll found that 72 per cent of people believed that Britain should keep
current restrictions in place. Just 18 per cent opposed the move.

The finding presents a challenge for Mr Cameron, who is reluctant to extend the
restrictions because of concerns it would be in breach of EU laws on freedom of
movement.

The Conservatives are acutely aware that their success in limiting the number of
Romanians and Bulgarians coming to Britain to claim benefits will be critical to
their prospects in the next general election.

Nigel Mills, a Conservative MP leading calls for greater restrictions, warned
that the failure to act could put the Tories in breach of their pledge to reduce
net migration to "tens of thousands".

He said: "We have a manifesto promise to get immigration down to tens of
thousands, rather than hundreds of thousands. By the end of this Parliament, we
need to be meeting that promise. An issue like this one makes that much harder
to achieve - it makes it harder to show that we have achieved that promise.

"Immigration is still the number one thing in people's minds. The response to
the poll shows how strong the case is and how worried people are.

"At a time when the economy is still recovering, people are worried about their
own jobs, they are worried about schools and hospitals. It's no surprise that
people don't want to risk a large number of people turning up again."

In response to the growing concerns, Theresa May, the Home Secretary, has
floated plans for an annual 75,000 cap on the number of EU migrants. The
suggestion increased Coalition tensions, with Vince Cable, the Lib Dem Business
Secretary, comparing the Conservative "rhetoric" on immigration to Enoch
Powell's "rivers of blood" speech in 1968.

However, the ICM/Sunday Telegraph poll suggests significant support for the
idea, with 49 per cent of people in favour of changing EU laws to limit the
number of migrants who can move to Britain every year.

The option was preferred to another of Mr Cameron's policies - barring migrants
from poorer EU countries from coming to Britain - which received the support of
just 14 per cent of the public.

Almost a quarter of the public support the idea of banning all EU migration by
withdrawing from freedom of movement laws, while 13 per cent were in favour of
keeping the status quo.

Asked if people would vote to stay in Europe if a referendum were held tomorrow,
45 per cent said they would either probably or definitely vote to leave, while
37 per cent said they would probably or definitely vote to stay. Mr Cameron has
pledged to have a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union in
2017.

Sir Andrew Green, the chairman of MigrationWatch UK, a think tank, said: "This
poll is clear evidence of the strength of public feeling. We may find that there
is a choice between gaining control over our borders and remaining in the EU.
That has not happened yet, but it seems to be looming on the horizon."

Martin Boon, the director of ICM Research, said: "As we approach the moment when
people from Romania and Bulgaria are entitled to seek residency in Britain,
public opinion is pretty hardened against their right to do so."

ICM Research interviewed an online sample of 2,023 adults aged 18 and above
between December 20 and 22, 2013. ICM is a member of the British Polling Council
and abides by its rules.

18% 17% 20% 21% 24% YES 72% NO 18% DON'T KNOW 10% Q. Do you think that Britain
should keep the current restrictions on Romanians and Bulgarians who will be
able to come to the UK to live and work from next month? Q. If there were a
referendum tomorrow, would you vote to stay in the EU? Definitely vote to stay
in the EU Probably vote to stay in the EU Probably vote to leave the EU
Definitely vote to leave the EU Don't know EUROPEAN POLL

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 22, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The EU tide is turning and Germany is our ally;
When reform of Europe's business powers was first mooted, everyone said Britain
would find itself in a cul-de-sac They were wrong

BYLINE: KAMAL AHMED

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1024 words


'To be in a minority of one," Winston Smith said in Nineteen Eighty-Four,
"doesn't make you mad." A lot of people thought David Cameron a bit mad when he
decided that ahead of a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union
he would demand reform in Brussels.

There goes Britain, the critics said, a one-man band trying to remake Europe in
its own image. It will never succeed, stuck as it is across the water, away from
the true European body politic.

Well, as Britain approaches 2014 there are significant signs of hope for reform
- and not because Britain is one voice shouting in the wilderness. Allies for Mr
Cameron's cause are amassing - in Germany, the Netherlands and Poland. Some have
suggested a new Hanseatic League, the northern European trading bloc that
stretched in medieval times across what is now the Netherlands, northern
Germany, parts of Poland and the Baltic states. The fact that the first recorded
common market collapsed in the 16th century amid national and business rivalries
can be put to one side for the moment.

The new EU reform alliance is being pushed along by a growing band of businesses
that are increasingly aware that rather than protectionist regulation - the
default setting for many officials within the European Commission - the best
chance for growth is the simplification of rules and free trade.

With reform comes better terms for businesses, whether operating in the UK,
trading with Europe or looking for opportunities further afield.

Mr Cameron has two main accelerators to encourage his nascent coalition. One is
a push for free-trade agreements. The other a push for a simplification of
European regulations - built in times of surplus, suffering in times of
austerity - which hamper businesses trying to compete with foreign operations or
in global markets.

One key issue is "gold plating", where smaller businesses particularly are
hampered by employment laws only really applicable to large-scale corporations.
EU "adaptations" - exemptions for SMEs - are few and far between.

Michael Fallon, the indefatigable business and energy minister, has done his
best battling to push through "de-gold plating" of regulations as fast as he can
say the rather ungainly phrase. But it has been an uphill struggle.

Now is the time to find fellow travellers. A few weeks ago, I argued that it was
a reasonable approach to hug Germany close when it came to reform of the
European Union. Since then the case has strengthened, and there is now a growing
scepticism among German businesses about the grand European integration project.
This plays very well for the UK.

The evidence is being pulled together by Open Europe, an impressive think tank
that is forging close links with Number 10. Last week it released evidence of
its "war gaming" exercise to reveal how Britain could gain the upper hand in
reform negotiations.

A number of members of the EU are all for free-trade agreements, particularly
the US Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership process. They rightly see
it as a way of supporting their businesses looking to expand abroad.

Another area is the liberalisation of the services sector, a move of
considerable advantage to the UK.

On this, Open Europe's "gaming" document says: "This is a big prize, with
Germany being the ultimate swing voter.

"The issue will be decided by QMV [qualified majority voting] with co-decision
[making] with the European Parliament. The current economic climate, and the
fact that the eurozone is already pushing services liberalisation in the south,
means this is the time to make a new push for single-market liberalisation in
services." Amen to that.

Over the past few weeks there has been growing evidence from Germany of
increasing weariness with the EU regime. Although an analysis of a report from
Commerzbank suggesting that it revealed EU scepticism about Europe was rising
was a little overblown (it was actually about the single currency), there are
other positive indicators.

Pieter Cleppe, Open Europe's man in Brussels, has pulled together a series of
factors which shows how the tide is beginning to turn Britain's way.

In October, the German Association of Family Businesses said that EU treaties
should be "fundamentally recalibrated" so that powers could be repatriated back
to nation states. For a country where business groups rarely express negative
European sentiment, this was a significant moment - particularly given the
importance of family-run private businesses not just to the German economy but
to the German psyche.

In a poll for Open Europe, 50pc of those questioned said they supported moves to
decentralise powers back to national or local level, compared with 26pc against.
Chancellor Angela Merkel's first comments as head of the new coalition
government pointedly contained references to the structures of Europe not being
fit for the globalised world.

"Those who want more Europe, also have to be prepared to re-regulate new
competencies," she said last week.

"We have a situation in Europe where everyone says, 'We can do everything to
evolve, but the one thing we can't change are the treaties.' I don't think we
will develop a Europe that functions in this manner."

Nor does the Prime Minister. Mrs Merkel has been particularly irritated by the
EC's attempt to investigate the energy price discounts Germany allows for some
of its heavy energy users.

Mr Cameron could well find a sympathetic ear in Berlin - Mrs Merkel believes
energy policy is a matter for national governments - as the British Government
locks horns with the EC over support for a new nuclear plant at Hinkley.

From a minority position of one, the Prime Minister is finding more support than
he expected for major EU reform. If he plays his cards right, businesses will
back Britain remaining in a thoroughly overhauled EU.

'Tis the Season

WITH three days to go, I would like to wish all our readers a happy Christmas
and the best of good fortune with their plans for 2014. The fact that you've
read this far is also much appreciated.

You can contact Kamal Ahmed about his column at kahmed@telegraph.co.uk and
follow him during the week on Twitter at kamalahmed1

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 22, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The PM wouldn't say no to another coalition deal;
Privately, Cameron admits he'd prefer another partnership with Clegg to
governing with a small majority, staving off disaster hour by hour

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1198 words


In the general-election campaign of 2010, the Conservatives ran a broadcast on
behalf of the fictitious "Hung Parliament Party", looking ahead to a political
world in which "under-the-table deals will be the order of the day, party
political wrangling will be dominant and policies will be bickered over by
secret committees". There would be "no change", "a paralysed economy", and
"behind-closed-doors politics".

As I revealed in my book on the Coalition, In It Together, all this was
elaborate cover for a top-secret planning process to prepare the Tories for a
governing partnership with the Lib Dems - preparations that paid off handsomely
in the inter-party talks.

It is worth remembering this as the Tories start to warm up once more for
battle. Yes, the election is still 16½ months away, but the campaign has already
begun. Buoyed by the Autumn Statement and the lowest level of unemployment since
2009, the Prime Minister and his parliamentary party are no longer clashing over
gay marriage and Europe. His meeting with the 1922 Committee last week was one
of the warmest of his eight-year leadership: a ritual of tribal reconciliation
and festive desk-banging. So - naturally - he told them that the party had to
chase off not only the ghastly prospect of a Labour victory in 2015, but also
the menace of another hung parliament.

This is precisely what Conservative MPs needed to hear; and it would be odd if
Cameron did not hope for his own majority this time www.round.No child writes to
Santa Claus asking for an Xbox One to share with the kid next door. Sharing a
games console is better than not having one at all. But - of the three options -
the best is having your very own box on Christmas morning on which to play Halo:
Spartan Assault.

In truth, Cameron was making another point by proxy. Hand on heart, he was
pledging allegiance to the Tory tribe, and reassuring his colleagues that he had
not (as some fear) gone native in Coalitionland. In similar spirit, Cameron told
The Spectator that "there's a good list of things I have put in my little black
book that I haven't been able to do which will form the next Tory manifesto".

Thus does Cameron present himself as a true blue Conservative straining at the
leash, "cabined, cribbed, confined" by the Lib Dems. The heavy implication is
that Lord Tebbit himself will whistle with admiration once Dave the Tough-guy
Tory is released from the cuffs of Clegg and can be himself.

The truth, needless to say, is more nuanced. As I disclosed earlier this year,
Cameron and Clegg have talked intermittently about the possibility of a second
Coalition. "If we did it again," the PM has said to his Lib Dem deputy, "I'd
have to seek collective permission."

Last week, Graham Brady, the chairman of the 1922, disclosed that Cameron had
indeed agreed that MPs would take part in "a definitive consultation with a
vote" if another deal were struck between the two parties. Yet again, the
Conservative leader is claiming to recoil from an outcome from which he is
actually preparing quite www.systematically.No real harm in that. But there is
undoubtedly risk in the politics of "if only". Labour knows all about this, for
it was afflicted by the same pathology between 1994, when Tony Blair became
leader, and 2007, when he left office. For 13 years, 10 of them in power, the
party grumbled about the sacrifices and compromises Blair demanded, and kidded
itself that "if only" Gordon Brown were at the helm, a red-blooded politics of
the Left would prevail.

Such yearnings - nostalgia disguised as dreams for the future - always end in
tears. One of Brown's lieutenants told me recently of his dismay when Blair
finally resigned and his successor took over. "When we got into No 10," he said,
"I realised that there wasn't a plan and there never had been."

It's not that Cameron lacks a plan: far from it. Though he has struggled as a
teacher-politician, explaining what he is doing and why, it is not for want of
activity. Things would certainly have been different if this had been a wholly
Conservative government rather than a Coalition. But would the difference have
been as radical as Cameron likes to suggest?

On immigration, and the European Convention on Human Rights, a Tory-only
administration would certainly have been tougher. But on welfare? Or tax? I
wonder. The real brake on the deeper benefit cuts that George Osborne wants has
not been Clegg, but Iain Duncan Smith. On the top rate of income tax, Cameron
was extremely cautious even about the cut from 50 per cent to 45 per cent,
accepting the economic argument but deeply wary of the politics.

I doubt that, if Clegg had not been in the room, the rate would have gone
straight down to 40 per cent.

I am not even convinced that Cameron, liberated from the Lib Dem veto, would
have held a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU in this parliament,
instead of promising one by the end of 2017. He has always believed that
renegotiation of our terms of membership should precede the vote, and it is hard
to see how that complex diplomatic process could have been complete in time for
an In/Out referendum before May 2015.

It has sometimes suited Cameron, in other words, to blame Clegg for an
arrangement or a delay or a compromise with which, in fact, he is very
comfortable. Last month, a group of centrist and green Tory MPs, including Laura
Sandys, Greg Barker and Zac Goldsmith, met Cameron to urge him not to abandon
the environmentalist agenda or to lurch to the Right. Afterwards, the PM
remarked to one of their number that it made a nice change to be lobbied by
moderate Tories, so used has he become to the fury of the Right and to MPs
urging him to chase the voters who have defected to Ukip.

There is nothing wrong with robust policies on welfare, immigration and Europe.
A Conservative leader should always favour tax cuts and look for ways of
securing them. But it would be a grave error for Cameron to imagine that these
familiar themes alone will deliver him victory in 2015. It would be an even
greater error for him to act as though he longs only to prove his Tory machismo,
free of Lib Dem interference.

Why? Because the public remains suspicious of Tory motives and needs
reassurance, not shrillness. And - more importantly - because Cameron is not a
Tough-guy Tory, in love with the Eighties and desperate only to resume the
politics of that decade. To his credit, he knows that the challenges of modern
society and the expectations of the electorate have changed radically since
www.then.No politician should pretend to be something he is not, for
inauthenticity is always punished by the voters.

This is why, in moments of private candour, the PM admits that he would much
prefer another coalition with Clegg to governing with a small Tory majority,
pleading daily with a handful of his own backbenchers, staving off disaster hour
by hour. Don't forget that Cameron was a Cabinet special adviser during the
Major years: he knows how that movie ends, and it is not pretty. Between now and
polling day, you will often hear him denouncing coalition as a woeful
second-best, and he'll mean it when he says it. But you'll never hear him say
"never again".

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 22, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK THAT WAS

BYLINE: PAUL CLEMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 210 words


HEROES AND VILLAINS In Camp Bastion, where British troops are preparing for next
year's withdrawal after more than a decade of combat operations in Afghanistan,
David Cameron declared the mission "accomplished". Islamist fanatics Michael
Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale were found guilty of murdering Fusilier Lee
Rigby near his barracks in Woolwich, south-east London, in May.

RUSSIAN REVOLUTIONS Vladimir Putin announced that he was pardoning oil tycoon
Mikhail Khodorkovsky after a decade in jail. In a move seen as a snub to the
Russian president over his crackdown on homosexuals, the US delegation to next
year's Winter Olympic Games in Sochi will include tennis legend Billie Jean King
and Olympic medallist Caitlin Cahow, both of whom are lesbian.

EURO PAEANS Ratings agency Standard & Poor's downgraded the European Union's
status a notch to "AA", citing British plans for a referendum on the country's
membership of the EU as a mitigating factor. Nina De Chiffre, a 20-year-old
student, was charged with sexual assault after kissing a riot police officer's
helmet during a demonstration in Italy. After deliberating for eight hours and
52 minutes, jurors found Francesca and Elisabetta Grillo not guilty of
defrauding Nigella Lawson and Charles Saatchi.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rink outsiders: skaters take to the ice at Somerset House
GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                December 8, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sun, sea and waste in the South Pacific

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 482 words


Today we report, in the first of an occasional series on the workings and
expenditure of the European Union, on the astonishing and largely unjustifiable
size of the EU's foreign diplomatic operation - the European External Action
Service. The EEAS now has 3,417 staff in total, with 1,960 stationed overseas.
Some officials earn a basic salary of £150,000 a year (more than the Prime
Minister), benefits are generous, taxes are low, and there is a good chance of
getting one of the 650 cars bought for use abroad (average price tag: £21,000).

If this were not our money being spent, we might find the situation comical.
Rather, it is infuriating. This week we report that the EU has been operating a
delegation in Vanuatu, a pretty archipelago in the South Pacific with a small
GDP of around £480 million. And what does this beacon of European civilisation
do? The EU has spent more than £80 million on teaching the locals to play
cricket, building wind turbines, theatre projects and a £400 brass plaque
celebrating 25 years of the EU's presence in the country.

Even the European bureaucrats have noted with concern that some of the money has
been obviously wasted. According to a Vanuatu newspaper, £150,000 was paid in
advance for the construction of wind turbines on two islands. One was never
installed, and another blew down in strong winds (an unhelpful feature of
turbines that has been spotted happening in the UK, too). The money was not
returned but instead spent on training programmes and other materials.

The EU's ability to waste money is legendary. When the EEAS was founded three
years ago, it enjoyed an extremely generous budget. Critics noted that it would
be placing 46 diplomats in Bridgetown, the capital of Barbados, nine more than
the British embassy, and 32 in Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic, 13 more
than the UK posts there. The comparative numbers are significant because they
show that not only is the EU being careless with our money, but also that it has
global pretensions that put it in a position to rival its individual members.
The EU continues to grow at a pace many of its citizens are not comfortable
with, and the metastasising of its diplomatic corps reinforces the need for
David Cameron to stake out a tough negotiating position in the run-up to his
pledged EU referendum. There is much that needs to be reformed.

Meanwhile, the EEAS disclosed last week that it is finally closing down the
Vanuatu office. It is not clear why, but it is noteworthy that this year, the
office in Surinam, the smallest sovereign state in South America, was also shut.
Perhaps the EU has recognised that its finances are out of control and it is
considering an economy drive. Nevertheless, its diplomatic operations remain
active near to Vanuatu, in Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands. There is
still plenty of sun, sea and fun to be had for the EU's diplomats.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                December 1, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lamont attack Cameron over 'wild EU claims

BYLINE: TIM ROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 476 words


LORD LAMONT, the former Conservative chancellor, has launched an attack on David
Cameron's "disappointing" attempts to renegotiate Britain's membership of the
European Union.

In the foreword to a new book, he accuses the Government of making "wild claims"
and "false arguments" about the dangers of Britain quitting Europe.

Without "significant" cuts to the power of Brussels over the UK's affairs, Lord
Lamont would be likely to vote for the UK to leave in a referendum in 2017, he
warned.

He endorses a new book by David Campbell Bannerman, a Conservative MEP, which
sets out a radical blueprint for how Britain could thrive outside the EU.

Lord Lamont, for whom Mr Cameron worked as a Treasury adviser in the Nineties,
says: "It ought to be common ground between pro- and anti-Europeans that the
debate should be informed and factual. Unfortunately, that is not always the
case.

"Wild claims such as that three million jobs in the UK depend on our membership
of the EU are frequently bandied about. It is sad that such false arguments are
sometimes repeated, even by our own Foreign office."

Lord Lamont says that Mr Campbell Bannerman's proposals for a British exit from
the EU are "extremely well timed" and "ought to be part of the debate".

Britain could save up to £20billion a year in budget contributions, as well as
"many tens of billions of pounds" arising from EU regulations that place added
costs on businesses, the peer says.

His intervention puts him at odds with Sir John Major, the former prime
minister, for whom Lord Lamont served as chancellor.

Last week, Mr Major said: "Of course, we would survive, but there would be a
severe price to pay in economic well-being, in jobs and in international
prestige.

"In a world of seven billion people, our island would be moving further apart
from our closest and largest trading partners, at the very time when they
themselves are drawing closer together. This makes no sense at all."

Mr Cameron has promised to review the power balance between Britain and
Brussels, and negotiate better terms for membership. The new deal would then be
put to voters in an in/out referendum by the end of 2017.

Lord Lamont said the review of the power balance was "a promising initiative but
the results have been disappointing". So far, the review has been a "recital" of
representations to ministers by lobby groups, with "no clue" about the
Government's intentions, he said.

In the book, Mr Campbell Bannerman says Britain would be able to negotiate an
exit from the EU on favourable terms.

The UK could form a new relationship with Europe modelled on the arrangements of
Switzerland, which has individual treaties with the EU, and Norway, which is
part of the European Economic Area trade grouping only.

This would allow most of the British economy to be free of EU red tape while
retaining access to the European market.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                December 1, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron must take EU reform seriously

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 428 words


Few issues have so keenly focused the public's mind on our relationship with the
EU as immigration has. Britain has long welcomed migrants and few would deny
that they have made an invaluable contribution to our society. But the likely
entrance of thousands of poor Bulgarians and Romanians into our labour market in
the New Year has raised fears about the pressure on jobs and services. To try to
allay those anxieties, David Cameron has proposed that arrivals from the EU
should face tough curbs on their ability to claim benefits, as well as
deportation if they sleep rough.

For some on the back benches this is not enough. A sizeable group of Tory MPs
have signed a Commons amendment calling for the current restrictions on
Bulgarian and Romanian immigrants to be extended by another five years. They
have some support from Kris Hopkins, the minister for local government, who
tells The Sunday Telegraph that the backbenchers have a "democratic right" to
protest the changes, arguing that one result of unlimited mass immigration could
be the revival of the far Right. The goal of the amendment appears to be to
force the Government to enter a tussle with the EU that would, at the very
least, delay the lifting of restrictions long enough for the potential settlers
to go elsewhere.

The debate demonstrates that people are looking to Mr Cameron for forceful
leadership on immigration; they want to see delivery, not just rhetoric. The
MPs' amendment is perhaps an early skirmish in what will be a longer, more
complex battle over the renegotiation of our relationship with the EU. Again, on
that point, people are hungry for leadership. In the foreword to a new book,
Time to Jump, by the MEP David Campbell Bannerman, Lord Lamont writes that the
Government is moving too slowly in its renegotiation efforts and that if it does
not come up with a serious, radical package of reforms then he will vote to
leave the EU in the promised referendum. He calls the Government's current
review of the balance of powers between the UK and EU "disappointing" - an
assessment that is bound to sting given that it comes from a former Tory
chancellor and, more pertinently, the Prime Minister's former boss.

The sooner we know Mr Cameron's position on these matters, the better. The
renegotiation must be tough-minded and address issues such as immigration
head-on if it is to be successful. A nation cannot be truly self-governing if it
does not control its own borders. Let us reclaim our sovereignty and, by so
doing, restore confidence and integrity to our immigration system.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                December 1, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pigs might fly above EU agricultural policy;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 130 words


SIR - You refer to one of the objectives of the Fresh Start group as being the
limitation of EU farming subsidies to efficient and productive businesses
(leading article, November 24).

To achieve this it will have to reverse the whole purpose of the Common
Agricultural Policy, which was set up to enable the inefficient French farmer to
make a living. This will be very difficult, but you never know - maybe the
French are developing a breed of flying pigs.

Peter Kirby Croydon, Surrey

SIR - If David Cameron wants to win the next general election he must prevent
Bulgarian and Romanian immigrants claiming benefits for a year after arrival in
the UK. He should use his power of incumbency and hold referendums on
immigration and EU membership without delay.

Dominic Shelmerdine London W8

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 24, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My prediction for 2014-tough but getting better

BYLINE: MARTIN SORRELL

SECTION: BUSINESS;EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1135 words


Although we are only weeks away from the end of 2013, we are still focused on
ensuring that WPP has another record year.

But, despite our concentration on the year end, we're also looking to the future
in the form of our rolling three-year strategic plans - and the budgets for 2014
that emanate from them.

As we try to read the runes, we inevitably turn to the soothsayers' forecasts
for GDP growth. We've always believed that client investment (we don't see it as
spending) in communications services is determined by trends in the wider
economy - in real and nominal GDP.

The relationship is remarkably close. While industry revenues fell more sharply
than GDP in 2001 and 2002 - as the internet bust sucked out heavy advertising
and public relations spending from the irrational exuberance of the internet
boom, through the sub-prime, monoline insurance, Bear Stearns and Lehman crises,
right up until the latest quarter - the correlation has been quite remarkable
(see graph).

So what does 2014 look like? Global real GDP forecasts hover around 3.5pc, with
nominal GDP forecasts around 5.5pc to 6pc - that's slightly stronger than 2013.

The forecasts reflect higher, but recently slowing, growth rates in Asia
Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East and Central and Eastern
Europe. And lower, but improving, growth rates in the US and Western Europe,
where the UK and Germany are undoubtedly the strong men of the region.

The markets between these two western European bookends, principally France,
Italy and Spain, remain more difficult. If the European downturn is U-shaped,
France remains on the downstroke, Italy is bumping along the bottom and a
recovering Spain is on the upstroke - although unemployment, particularly among
young people, remains at socially and politically unacceptable levels.

WPP's global GDP, however, differs from the real world. Although, even after the
"POG" merger (between our competitors Publicis and Omnicom), we have the
strongest presence in the fast-growth economies, we under-represent the GDP
power of, for example, Asia Pacific. So we have to trim 1pc to 1.5pc off global
nominal GDP, giving a WPP GDP growth rate of, say, 4pc to 4.5pc.

The other important variable is advertising as a proportion of GDP. Years ago,
we argued that advertising as a proportion of GDP should increase over time -
rising in fast-growth markets (as they are generally under-branded) and stable
or rising in slow-growth markets, particularly as we recovered from the
post-Lehman recession in 2009 and the consequent, though (we think) ill-advised,
slashing of advertising budgets.

Now, we reluctantly just assume that advertising will remain the same proportion
of GDP globally, with the under-advertised fast-growth markets balancing the
slow-growth markets.

Given that assumption for 2014, advertising and marketing services spending
should rise next year by between 4pc and 4.5pc. And given our preliminary look
at our budgets, which tend to be conservative, we certainly will budget
like-for-like growth of more than 3pc, compared with 3pc in 2013. The Sochi
Winter Olympics, the football World Cup in Brazil and US mid-term congressional
elections will help, too.

All in all, not a great growth climate - tough, but manageable. So where is this
modest growth coming from, for our business at least? Although the fast-growth
markets are slower than they were, they're still growing faster than the mature
markets. The US would kill for even the relatively muted Chinese growth of
7.5pc.

As Stanley Fisher pointed out in Washington DC last week, a China that grows at
8pc is still two-and-a-half times bigger than the China that used to grow at
10pc.

I'm very bullish on a China with strong new leadership following the Twelfth
Five Year Plan and the Third Plenum of the Eighteenth Party Congress - when did
a Western government set out such a detailed and comprehensive plan? I'm also
bullish on a Russia driven by strong oil prices, along with the Winter Olympics
next year and the World Cup in 2018.

Brazil and India, on the other hand, may be a different story, as both countries
have general elections coming up. India may remain in stasis after the election,
as no party will have a clear majority and a coalition will continue to
compromise. Brazil clearly faces more than simply infrastructural challenges
around the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Rio Olympics.

Nonetheless, the BRICs and other fast-growth markets remain one of the world's
and WPP's core strengths and we are determined to raise their concentration to
between 40pc and 45pc of our revenues within five years from the current 31pc.

Indonesia, Myanmar, Mexico (despite the sugar and calories tax), Colombia and
Nigeria are all enticing prospects and - although you may think I am being too
optimistic - we could in the fullness of time see opportunities even in Iran,
Cuba and North Korea.

At the same time, the US is certainly improving, despite the sequester, the
shutdown and kicking the deficit can down the road. GDP growth is not fabulous
but it is incremental.

The UK will show even stronger growth, and the Chancellor's electoral strategy
may well yet pay off handsomely in 2015. Continental western Europe is also
improving, although stock markets may have got ahead of themselves. The trio of
Germany, Poland and Russia will drive central and eastern Europe forward, too.

People ask, 'what is the next big thing in our industry?'. And the trite answer
seems to be mobile and data. Hard to argue with that, but I think the next
really big thing, or things, will be coming from China.

We in the West tend to think the Chinese simply copy others' ideas (or worse),
just as we used to say about the Japanese or Hong Kong Chinese or South Koreans.
If it was true, I'm not sure it's going to remain true.

Look at Xiaomi - the highly innovative mobile firm giving Apple a run for its
money. Or wait for Ali Baba or Tencent or Baidu to launch their financial
transactions platforms to compete with established state banks. A lot of the
technology-driven change may well come from China, particularly as others follow
Hugo Barra from Android to Xiaomi and co.

All in all, it seems 2014 will not be a blow-out year globally. Growth will be
solid, if unspectacular.

The grey swans (known unknowns) of the eurozone, the Middle East and the BRICs
hard or soft landing have whitened.

The fourth swan, the US deficit, will squawk again in January or February. With
luck, Congress will have learnt from the mistakes of 2011 and 2013, and will at
the very least kick the can down the road for a lengthy period, past the
mid-term congressional elections.

At home in the UK, it promises to be a good year, perhaps even overcoming the
uncertainty caused by the fifth black swan: the spectre of an EU referendum.

Sir Martin Sorrell is CEO of WPP

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The World Cup in Brazil should boost advertising spend in 2014

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 24, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We must prepare now for EU renegotiation;
The Sunday Telegraph

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 244 words


The lifting of restrictions on Bulgarian and Romanian immigration in the coming
New Year has crystallised in the minds of many voters just how powerless we can
be in the face of an ever-expanding European Union. Aside from fears about the
pressure on jobs and services, it illustrates how much of our sovereignty we
have lost. Our borders have been steadily prised open.

Against this background, senior MPs have started travelling to European capitals
to discuss how to reform the EU ahead of the in/out referendum David Cameron has
promised to hold by 2017. This week the Fresh Start group of Conservative MPs
will also publish a "negotiating mandate" laying out 10 areas of necessary
reform - and tackling the problem of so-called benefits tourism will be part of
the discussion. The group will additionally identify the need to end the drive
towards a "Euro-Army", to limit subsidies available for farming to efficient and
productive businesses, and to achieve greater democratic accountability.

These are sensible ideas and we would join the voices of those saying that the
Prime Minister must draft his negotiating position as soon as possible. The more
work that is done now, before the 2015 election, the more fruitful the
negotiations will be should Mr Cameron win a second term. His vision for a
reformed EU needs to be clear and practical, and directly to address voters'
concerns. This could be the moment that redefines our relationship with Europe
for ever.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 24, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory talks on the EU clawback

BYLINE: TIM ROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 634 words


SENIOR TORIES have begun talks on renegotiating membership of the European Union
as they prepare a list of the powers that must be clawed back from Brussels.

Leading MPs, with the backing of the Foreign Office, have embarked on a schedule
of discussions with their European counterparts in every other EU member state,
before an in-out referendum in 2017.

The round of "below the radar" talks has been quietly encouraged by government
figures as Eurosceptic Conservatives accelerate their campaign for radically
scaled back links with the EU.

The talks come as David Cameron prepares to act over mounting public fears of a
fresh wave of immigration from Romania and Bulgaria, two of the new EU member
countries. Restrictions on migrants from the two countries expire next month.
The Prime Minister is expected to set out how he plans to limit the impact of
any influx, including further possible restrictions on the eligibility of
Europeans for state benefits. The Conservatives are committed to securing new
terms for EU membership if they win the next election. They will put the
resulting deal to voters in an "in/out" referendum by 2017.

This week, the Fresh Start group of Tory MPs will publish a "negotiating
mandate" setting out 10 plans for overhauling relations with the EU.

Their demands include:

Restrictions on benefits for EU migrants. Ministers have already held talks with
other EU governments to build an alliance against the European Commission, which
aims to overturn British strict rules on benefits, including jobseekers'
allowance;

Making Europe open for business with the Single Market expanded to include
financial services, while protecting the City from antitrade rules and cutting
back working time restrictions;

Ending the drive towards a Euro-army which could fight under the EU flag;

Reforming the Common Agricultural Policy, including focusing subsidies on
efficient farms rather than propping up failing farms.

In an article for The Telegraph website, one of the group's founders, Andrea
Leadsom, a member of the Downing Street policy board, says it is crucial for Mr
Cameron to draft his negotiating position "now".

"The UK undoubtedly has a window of opportunity to secure a new deal with the EU
which would properly serve the interest of the British people," the MP writes.

"However, there must be no illusions. The window is a narrow one. And there is
no room for slip ups."

Conservatives believe that the EU lacks public support because Brussels is too
remote from voters' lives.

Many of these priorities are likely to be reflected in a new "negotiating
mandate", to be published by the Fresh Start group this week.

These are likely to focus on reforming the EU rules of freedom of trade and
movement for businesses and citizens. MPs recognise that the scale of public
concern over immigration from the rest Europe must be addressed.

Eurosceptics, including Labour MPs, have promoted the reform plans during visits
to Prague, Warsaw, Sweden and Finland this year. Trips are also planned for The
Hague next month and Paris in 2014. The trips are largely funded with taxpayers'
money as all MPs are entitled to undertake up to three visits a year to other
countries in the EU.

Tim Loughton, the Conservative MP for East Worthing and Shoreham and another
Fresh Start organiser, said embassies had been "helpful" in promoting their
agenda.

Politicians in these countries had read copies of the Fresh Start manifesto and
discussed the group's plans during the meetings which he attended, he said.

He said: "What we are doing is unofficially, beneath the radar, setting out some
detailed things that are the basis of the negotiation and acting as a sounding
board."

Read Andrea Leadsom at www.telegraph.co.uk/comment

Editorial Comment: Page 29

'The UK has a window of opportunity for a new EU deal'

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 24, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory to-do list;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 71 words


SIR - Paul Homewood (Letters, November 17) should have included "hold the EU
referendum before the next election" in his list of things the Conservative
Party should do. Freddie Pilditch Wraysbury, Buckinghamshire

SIR - How can voters trust a general election manifesto by the Conservative
Party ever again? David Cameron's gay marriage legislation was never in the
party's 2010 manifesto. Desmond Mulvany Shepperton, Middlesex

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 17, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It's time to hug the Germans close on EU reform;
BUSINESS EDITOR

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 981 words


As anybody who is au fait with the latest developments in young people's slang
will know, a frenemy is someone who pretends to be your friend but is actually
an enemy, gently stabbing you in the back as they smile to your face, (if that
is physically possible, given the limited length of people's arms).

I am now going to make a bold bid for a new word to enter the urban lexicon.
Enefriend - that is, someone who may appear to be an enemy but is actually a
bosom buddy.

Now, Britain, let's face it, has had its fair share of run-ins with Germany down
the years. But now it is time for a new approach - no more Achtung! and
whistling The Great Escape theme tune, we need to extend the hand of friendship
across the blustery Nordsee and join with our business partners.

The reason? Europe and the future of the European Union.

Much has been made of larger businesses' concerns about the forthcoming
referendum on whether or not Britain should remain a member of a reformed EU. As
The Sunday Telegraph revealed in June, the new president of the CBI, Sir Michael
Rake, is certainly no fan of an EU exit.

As we also revealed, the CBI has been quietly visiting Germany to link up with
its equivalent organisation there and make common cause with those corporates
that argue that a single European market, despite all its shortcomings, is
better than the alternative.

The problem with becoming a Norway or a Switzerland - both outside the EU but
with an advantageous trading relationship - is that Britain has a far larger
economy and can expect a more defensive approach from union members if the
present alliance is broken up.

For smaller businesses, less advantaged by economies of scale and more greatly
burdened by the red tape of Brussels, the argument has always been finely
balanced. A survey by the British Chambers of Commerce revealed broad support
for a renegotiated relationship with the EU, rather than retaining the status
quo or countenancing full withdrawal. In this, British businesses have willing
allies in Germany.

A smart organisation, Open Europe, is promoting the idea of a cross-EU push by
businesses for reform before the referendum occurs. It has brought together
business leaders from Britain, Germany and Sweden to find common cause under the
banner "Get Europe back to business". Lord Wolfson, the chief executive of Next,
is quoted alongside Luke Johnson, the founder of Risk Capital Partners and the
former chairman of Pizza Express, as well as Marie-Christine Ostermann, managing
director of Rullko Großeinkauf ("My business needs space to grow, not more red
tape") and Swedish biotech entrepreneur Mats Arnhog ("Two things are needed in a
democracy: elected leaders and the ability to reverse laws that don't work - at
present the EU lacks both.").

Many German businesses know that, without Britain inside the EU, any reform
agenda will stutter. France, whose sclerotic economy is on the brink of another
recession, will become more powerful and the EU's opportunity to battle with the
emerging market blocs of China and South America will lessen.

With fundamental demographics against it - the country's ageing and high-saving
society tends to put it on the wrong side of the globalisation debate - German
businesses are worried about being left in a more inwardlooking EU. There are
even those who predict that with higher levels of growth and an increasing
rather than declining population, the UK economy could become the largest
economy in the EU.

If only Britain could up its productivity - a concern that the Governor of the
Bank of England has vocalised - then Germany would truly be looking over its
shoulder.

So, the stars are aligned. Businesses in the UK and Germany need to push a joint
reform agenda to help both countries. Everyone might want to keep their
frenemies close. But I would suggest keeping your enefriends even closer.

SKY'S STILL THE LIMIT THERE was much wailing and gnashing of teeth last weekend,
when my colleagues on The Daily Telegraph revealed that BT had made an audacious
£897m deal with UEFA for the exclusive rights to broadcast the European
Champions League.

Surely this was not so much a shot across the bows for BSkyB as a bomb
amidships. BSkyB has built itself as the Home of Sport, not the Home of Sport
Apart From the Good Bits We Can't Afford. BSkyB's share price duly sank 10pc on
Monday, equivalent to £1.4bn off its market capitalisation.

Inside BSkyB, though, all is, relatively, calm. Yes, there was some irritation
that UEFA entered exclusive talks with BT without asking the present incumbents,
BSkyB and ITV, whether they wanted to rebid (BSkyB did not, thinking its £500m
offer quite sufficient). But beyond that, Jeremy Darroch, BSkyB's chief
executive, may have been handed not so much a poisoned dart as a favourable one.

For the past decade, BSkyB has been trying to drop its "beer and football"
image. Sky's entertainment channels are a growing and vital part of the
business. Over the past year, six Champions League games drew audiences higher
than a million. That compares with 122 on Sky's other channels for programmes
such as Game of Thrones, Stella and Madogs. In terms of return on capital
employed, drama is more cost-efficient than European football.

Champions League games account for only 3pc of BSkyB viewing, compared with 19pc
for Premier League football. Yes, BSkyB will have to bid big when the next
Premier League rights become available but the business suddenly has £500m of
extra spending for marketing, series acquisition and building innovations such
as Sky Go and On Demand.

BT, protecting its broadband business, needs the Champions League more than
BSkyB and therefore offered much more. Fortunately for Mr Darroch, BSkyB now
lives by much more than football alone.

You can contact Kamal Ahmed about his column at kahmed@telegraph.co.uk and
follow him during the week on Twitter at kamalahmed1

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 17, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron is right to call a vote on the EUsays Rachida Dati

BYLINE: KIM WILLSHER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1093 words


WITH HER Christian Dior dresses and designer jeans, she became the chic face of
France's otherwise staid political class.

Rachida Dati, the daughter of a North African bricklayer, clawed her way to the
top of the French establishment to become justice minister in Nicolas Sarkozy's
centre-Right presidency, bringing a dash of elegance and glamour to a government
seen as stuffy, out of touch and overwhelmingly male.

The 47-year-old star of the Paris glamour magazines never made any secret of her
unwavering ambition for high office; but after falling out with Mr Sarkozy she
found herself sacked and exiled to Brussels, the Gallic equivalent of being sent
to Coventry.

She soon recovered and was elected mayor of the 7th arrondissement of Paris, one
of the richest in the French capital.

Now, she is on the comeback trail again and if anyone knows how to capture the
zeitgeist and transform it to her own advantage, it is Ms Dati.

"What's the difference between Rachida Dati and a cat?," the news magazine Le
Point asked this week. "A cat only has nine lives."

This time, Ms Dati has hitched herself to a cause that traditionally has been
unfashionable on both sides of the French political divide. In an interview with
The Sunday Telegraph, she has thrown her weight behind David Cameron's battle
for major reform of the European Union and its bloated institutions.

Ms Dati, who is still a leading member of the main centre-Right opposition in
France, the UMP, described Mr Cameron as "brave" for heeding the concerns of the
British people - and even suggested the French would probably agree with his
approach if they stopped listening to their own leaders.

"The European 'elite', those technocrats who want to keep their jobs, cry over
Europe being rejected by the people, but the people are not rejecting Europe,
they are rejecting the Eurocrats," Ms Dati said. "This is what is fuelling
extremism and popularism." Her intervention is indicative of the growing tide of
Euro-scepticism in France, a disenchantment reflected in the rise of the
far-Right Front National (FN), which wants to repatriate significant powers from
Brussels.

Ms Dati acknowledged that rising tide of frustration and suggested that Mr
Cameron's approach - of listening to people, understanding their concerns about
the EU and offering them a choice on Europe - was now the correct model to
follow.

"David Cameron's proposals show he is listening to people, listening to British
citizens. I believe the British, like the French, are probably pro-Europe.
However, they are not pro-European institutions'."

The rise of the FN has, in some ways, forced the UMP to temper its traditional
enthusiasm for the European project - Mr Sarkozy, the party's former leader, was
an ardent Europhile - so Ms Dati's language in support of Mr Cameron is
striking.

Most French politicians will say they want Britain to remain in the EU, but
scratch the surface and their view is little different from the Frenchman on the
Paris omnibus or the chic Left Bank dinner party guest, summarised as: if
Britain doesn't like it and can't lump it, why doesn't it just leave? Ms Dati
however, insists she is genuine in her desire for Britain to remain in Europe
and argues that Mr Cameron's proposed referendum may be the only means of
securing that continued participation.

Sitting in her grand mayoral office, Ms Dati is as indefatigable as she is
elegant. She attempts to soften her image with the judicious scattering of her
daughter's effects around the office; a drawing here, a toy there, but she is
brisk to the point of brusque.

Her indictment of Europe is delivered at a breathtaking speed. She said that now
was the moment for "serious re-flection" on the EU's raison d'etre and expanded
on the views she expressed in a recent article for the French newspaper Le
Figaro, in which she wrote that Mr Cameron was "acting responsibly" with his
promise of a referendum.

"It's important the UK remains in Europe. If it leaves it's a total failure for
the European Union and a very big weakness," Ms Dati said.

"Young people were born with Europe. They travel to Berlin, London, Madrid today
as if they are using the metro. They don't want a return to passport
restrictions, more controls. They were born with Europe and they don't want to
go backwards. If tomorrow we suggested going back to border controls, there
would be a revolution. But what people want is a Europe that doesn't try to do
everything and in trying to do everything does very little.

"We need a serious reflection about Europe and what it is good at. Europe has
hit a wall but we have to go forward and forward quickly.

"The problem is with the men and women who are seen to symbolise the European
Union. Barroso [Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission]
is not a great leader and has only advanced under constraint. He is not a brave
man.

"What people want from the EU is the spirit of the [EU] treaty and leaders who
match up to their expectations. How can you have a High Representative for
Foreign Affairs [Baroness Ashton] who has no reaction to the Arab Spring, no
reaction to immigration, no reaction to Iran?" Ms Dati was no less scathing of
her own country's Socialist leaders, launching a vehement diatribe against
President François Hollande.

"Unemployment is explod-ing, taxes are exploding, there is no logic," she said.
"If he had an ideology at least there would be a goal, but everyone is lost.
France is like a capsized boat that is drifting. "What I am worried about is
young people leaving France. What terrifies me is that France is no longer a
land of hope and of a future for these young people.

"What are they to do when there are no jobs. Companies are saying they don't
like to recruit because they don't know what is going to happen. The president
has to take hold of political power, to reform the working market, to reduce
taxes, to reform the education system."

Today, Ms Dati's political hopes rest on a return to power of the UMP in 2017.
She is close to the party's new leader Jean-François Copé, but is still hedging
her bets in the event Mr Sarkozy makes a political comeback.

"Nicolas Sarkozy carried out reforms. He reduced public spending, he reorganised
public services. The 2008 economic crisis was catastrophic, but France has come
out of it strong. We held strong. It is a caricature of Nicolas Sarkozy's term
to say otherwise," she said.

Whether Mr Sarkozy will run for president again remains to be seen, but only the
foolish would bet against another remarkable political renaissance by Ms Dati.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ERIC DESSONS/JDD/SIPA/REX
Ms Dati, now the mayor of the chic 7th arrondissement Rachida Dati: 'I believe
the British, like the French, are probably pro-Europe. However, they are not
pro-European institutions'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 17, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron can only get what he wants by leaving the EU

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 562 words


f all the millions of words uttered in the past year on the possibility of the
British being given a referendum on whether or not to remain in the European
Union, scarcely any have had the faintest connection to reality.

This unreal debate was triggered, of course, by David Cameron's pledge that, if
re-elected in 2015, he would negotiate with Brussels for the return of
unspecified powers of government, and then, in 2017, would lead the "Yes"
campaign in a referendum, arguing that Britain should stay a member of the EU on
the basis of the new relationship with it that he had so brilliantly negotiated.

His proposal last January - only made to buy off the fear of so many of his
backbenchers that Ukip might cost them their seats in 2015 - was no more than an
empty political gesture. As many in Brussels have scornfully made clear, there
is no way that Britain could be given back any powers, because this would breach
the most sacred principle on which the EU is founded, that once powers have been
handed over they can never be returned.

At least Mr Cameron has brought out a consensus of the great and the good - from
politicians of all parties to the CBI and most of the press - that above all,
while the dysfunctional EU is indeed in need of "reform", for Britain to leave
it would be a disaster - because this would exclude us from the Single Market
that accounts for nearly half of our trade. As recent polls have confirmed, even
if there were a referendum tomorrow, it is this more than anything that would
terrify the British public into voting to stay in.

But there are two issues in this debate which the supporters of the consensus
are determined must never be raised. The first is that there is only one way in
which Brussels could be made to negotiate the new relationship with the EU that
the Cameronites say they are after - by invoking Article 50 of the Lisbon
Treaty.

This would compel the EU by law to negotiate with us. But that, as we know, can
only be triggered by a country that first says it wishes to leave the EU.

The second fact the Cameronites are absolutely determined we shouldn't discuss
is that there are many countries, such as Norway, which trade as freely with the
Single Market as we do, without having to be members of the EU.

What do Mr Cameron and his supporters tell us they want? To negotiate a new
relationship between Britain and the EU and for Britain to enjoy continued free
access to the Single Market. There is only one legal and practical way in which
they can have everything they want, but that depends on invoking Article 50. So
they slam the door on it before they've even started, by insisting that there is
no way they could allow Britain to leave the EU.

Thus they continue to dream their dreams, prattling about negotiations that can
never happen, the return of powers they never name and meaningless referendums
sometime in the indefinite future. They doom Britain to drift on into the
twilight of a nation, impotently complaining at how we are shackled to this
increasingly dysfunctional form of government, which next year will have its
mind only on yet another centralising new treaty designed to rescue it from the
insoluble mess of the euro.

But we cannot be allowed to know that it doesn't have to be like this. Locked in
the mind prison of "Europe", the political class that rules us won't have it any
other way.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The EU cannot negotiate with a nation unless it first says it wishes to
leave it
ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 10, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Empty threat' to EU must get real, say Tories

BYLINE: TIM ROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 932 words


DAVID CAMERON must show he is "serious" about quitting the European Union or
face defeat in his effort to secure a better deal for Britain, senior
Conservatives are warning.

Some Cabinet members are said to be "very worried" that the Prime Minister is
weakening his negotiating position by repeatedly stating that he wants the UK to
remain inside a reformed EU, under more favourable terms.

Senior MPs are privately drawing up a list of powers which must be
"repatriated", ranging from immigration to business regulations, before a
referendum on EU membership is held.

Separately, the influential Free Enterprise Group of Tory MPs, which includes a
number of young ministers seen as future Cabinet material, is also demanding the
Prime Minister claw back business regulation powers from Brussels. The group has
written a formal letter to the Prime Minister setting out 10 requirements for
freeing small business from red tape.

Mr Cameron has promised to renegotiate the terms of the UK's membership of the
EU and put the resulting "better deal" to voters in an in/out referendum by the
end of 2017, if the Conservatives win the next election in 2015.

While this promise has held the eurosceptic Right - which reaches into the
Cabinet - at bay in recent months, there are signs that the Tory truce on Europe
could rupture.

Some fear that any attempt to renegotiate Britain's membership will fail unless
European leaders such as François Hollande, the French president, and Angela
Merkel, the German chancellor, believe that the threat to leave is real.

A senior Conservative source, who is loyal to the Prime Minister, said: "The
Right are very worried because unless we are serious about the threat to leave
we will not be able to negotiate. If we say that we want to stay, it weakens our
position."

Since he made the promise of an in/out referendum in a speech at Bloomberg's
London headquarters in January, Mr Cameron has repeatedly said that he wants to
remain in the EU, but under "better" terms.

It is this insistence which has created concern that other European leaders will
not take the negotiations seriously.

A consultation process on which powers could be "repatriated" from Brussels to
Britain has begun and leading Tory MPs have started drawing up a list of demands
for the new relationship with the EU.

A senior MP said: "The whole question is what does the Prime Minister and Tory
leadership need to do to add credibility to the Bloomberg speech?" Mr Cameron's
subsequent comments, including in a speech to the CBI last week, place him in a
"very weak" negotiating position because he appears willing to stay in the EU
"whatever happens", the source said.

The warnings come as the Free Enterprise Group of senior MPs sets out 10 demands
for changes in Britain's relationship with Europe to free small businesses from
red tape. The Tory group was founded by Liz Truss, the child care minister, and
includes other ministers such as Sajid Javid, a Treasury minister, and George
Eustice, the minister for food and farming.

In a letter to the Prime Minister, the group calls for cuts to regulations for
small businesses and a ban on any new EU regulations for firms employing fewer
than 50 people. The 42-strong group of MPs says: "The EU interferes in almost
every aspect of small business, including through employment law, health and
safety rules and VAT policy.

"The Government's commitment to renegotiate the UK's membership of the EU
presents an unprecedented opportunity to reform the EU's approach."

Kwasi Kwarteng, the Free Enterprise Group's convenor and MP for Spelthorne, said
the EU was "strangling small businesses" in Britain.

"It's vital that as the Prime Minister makes the case for reforming Britain's
relationship with the EU, the need to help small businesses is front and
centre," he said. Other backbench MPs want reforms to EU freedom of movement
rules and human rights law, as well as rules on eligibility for state benefits.

Bernard Jenkin, a senior MP, said it was still "early days" for recasting
Britain's relationship with the EU.

"The Prime Minister clearly feels he needs the time and the 2017 deadline gives
him the time to think this through before he commits to what kind of
renegotiation we are really looking at," he said. "But the European elections
and, indeed, the general election will very much focus on what kind of new
relationship a future Conservative government will be seeking with the EU."

Downing Street is taking steps to block rebel MPs from repeating their
successful ambush of the Queen's Speech this year, which resulted in the Prime
Minister agreeing to support the Bill promising an EU referendum.

Andrew Lansley, the Leader of the House of Commons, has tabled a plan which
would limit the number of amendments which can be debated during the Queen's
Speech session in future.

In May, 114 Tory MPs - half of all Tory backbenchers - voted for an amendment to
the Queen's Speech that said they "respectfully regret that an EU referendum
bill was not included in the Gracious Speech".

Peter Bone and John Baron, two Conservatives who were the original authors of
that amendment, said they would fight Mr Lansley's plan.

Mr Baron said the result had been to "nudge the party closer to the electorate".

Mr Bone said: "We changed government policy, which is partly what Parliament is
supposed to do.

"There is no earthly reason to limit the number of amendments to the Queen's
Speech given that it is one of the most important pieces of legislation we
consider."

David Cameron has set a deadline of 2017 for an in/out vote if the Tories win
the next election

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                November 3, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK TO COME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 154 words


TOMORROW The Barclays ATP World Tour Finals, featuring the world's top eight
men's singles and doubles tennis players, takes place at The 02 Arena in London.

TUESDAY Protesters against government cuts demonstrate in London and across the
country in an event supported by the National Union of Teachers and Unite.

WEDNESDAY President of South Korea Park Geun-hye, the country's first female
leader, elected last December, begins a state visit to the United Kingdom.

THURSDAY Jeeves and the Wedding Bells, by Sebastian Faulks, is published,
reviving P G Wodehouse's characters in a new story authorised by the author's
estate.

FRIDAY Tory MP James Wharton's EU (Referendum) Bill reaches report stage in the
House of Commons, when alternative questions to be put to the electorate will be
discussed.

SATURDAY The Rugby League World Cup 2013 continues with England vs Fiji at the
KC Stadium, Hull. Australia also play Ireland in Limerick.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                November 3, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sir Richard's a foolish Virgin on Europe;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 234 words


SIR - Sir Richard Branson (Business, October 27) trots out the old canard that
if we were to leave the EU this country would suddenly "have to start paying
taxes for exporting goods into Europe". Given that the EU sells so much more to
us than we sell to the EU, that seems an unlikely prospect. Would Sir Richard
treat his best customer in such a cavalier fashion?

Sir Richard also ignores the fact that the rules of the World Trade Organisation
effectively prevent such a course of action. Sir Richard avers that "we've
already made up our mind to be part of Europe", to which anyone under the age of
56 might reasonably retort that they've never been asked.

Christopher Gill Bridgnorth, Shropshire

SIR - Sir Richard's love for the EU evidently blinds him to the harsh realities
of belonging to this anti-democratic and seriously mismanaged organisation.

His opposition to a referendum ignores what the EU has become since 1975, and
those European countries that are thriving outside the EU. David Rammell
Lymington, Hampshire

SIR - Since all EU countries that host immigrants complain about benefit tourism
to some degree, they should deal with it.

Set benefits for, say, Bulgarian citizens in Germany at Bulgarian levels and
recover the cost from the EU. The country of origin would lose that amount from
its EU funding. The same would apply to the French in Britain or the British in
Spain.

Bill Wilson Norwich

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BBC bias could influence outcome of a referendum on the EU;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 594 words


SIR - Well done The Sunday Telegraph for exposing the BBC bias in its recent
news report on EU immigration (report, October 20). This must be embarrassing
for the Corporation, given its present appeal for comments from the public about
its coverage of news and current affairs programmes.

The BBC seems blind to the reasons why the EU is not working. Programmes
investigating its mismanagement and undemocratic nature are conspicuous by their
absence.

This raises questions about the BBC's relationship with Brussels. What is
particularly worrying is the effect this bias will have on the electorate if a
referendum on the EU is called. I fear the appointment of Tony Hall as
Director-General will make little difference.

D R Taylor Everton, Hampshire

SIR - The BBC's news coverage is biased against the Coalition Government, not
only in the words it uses but in the body language of its newsreaders.

George Alagiah announced the fall in unemployment on the 6pm news on October 16
with a facial expression of the utmost gloom and a voice to match.

Nobody who has the good of the nation at heart could be so miserable at such
good news; but it could mean that the economy is improving, which lessens the
chance of Labour getting back into power. A C B Lamport Folkestone, Kent

SIR - Just when you think the BBC's Left-wing bias could not get any worse, up
pops Russell Brand on Newsnight.

Interviewed by Jeremy Paxman, this ridiculous nonentity is allowed to broadcast
his extreme Marxist views, calling for a "massive redistribution of wealth".

While Mr Brand is entitled to hold whatever views he likes, can somebody please
tell me why the BBC thinks it appropriate to give him any airtime at all? Paul
Homewood Stocksbridge, West Yorkshire

SIR - Roger Daniel (Letters, October 20) could do what I did, when I discovered
some years ago how the BBC was using licence payers' money: stop watching or
recording television. He would need to inform TV Licensing of his intentions and
cancel his licence.

Raymond Cox Halesowen, Worcestershire

SIR - It is hard for some BBC broadcasters to hide the sneer in their voice
towards the Conservative side. When it comes to interviewing Labour
representatives they do so with a different tone.

Dorothy Roberts Wellington, Shropshire

SIR - I listen to Radio 5 Live but am more and more frustrated by the attitude
of its presenters. Anyone who is against Government policy in any way is given
large amounts of air time while representatives of the Government are quickly
dismissed. As far as I can see, the only way is to privatise the BBC. Elisabeth
Boon Bournemouth, Dorset

SIR - Dismissing ITN as "no longer" a "worthy competitor" to the BBC (News
Review, October 20) doesn't stand up to scrutiny and does a disservice to our
talented journalists who break exclusives and make highquality programmes for
ITV, Channel 4, Channel 5 and others. Our news programmes reach 43 per cent of
the public every week, trust levels are higher than all media other than the
BBC, and our journalists match and often beat their BBC counterparts.

Look at Channel 4 News's International Emmy for its Homs reporting, how ITV News
and ITV's Exposure led the way in unmasking Jimmy Savile, or the acclaim our
production division received for its Sri Lanka's Killing Fields documentaries.

Quality news programming is enjoying a purple patch at a time when ITN is
showing financial stability and record revenues, and the commercial broadcasters
are demonstrating a commitment to news and new current affairs formats.

John Hardie Chief Executive Officer, ITN London WC1

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'I HAVE WORKED BLOODY HARD';
Sir Richard Branson talks to Matthew Stadlen about allegations he is a tax
exile, Europe and his new start-up scheme for young entrepreneurs

BYLINE: Matthew Stadlen

SECTION: BUSINESS;FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2032 words


Sir Richard Branson has his legs slung across the table between us. He did take
the precaution of asking whether I minded him resting them there. He is after
all a busy man who spends much of his time flying from country to country trying
to make the world a better place.

His philanthropy, though, wasn't enough to immunise him against a headline
earlier this month which read: "Goodbye, Britain: I'm a tax exile."

When I ask whether he now sees himself as a citizen of Britain or a man of the
world, Sir Richard says it's the latter. "I've always felt that the world should
be one world, we shouldn't have borders. [We] spend a lot of our time on
conflict resolution issues. There shouldn't be conflicts, it sounds like a naive
thing to say."

Sir Richard is in London to celebrate 40 years of Virgin Records, the company he
sold, amid tears, in 1992 to help fund his airline business. He's also in the UK
to promote a start-up scheme for entrepreneurs.

I wonder whether Sir Richard misses Britain, given that he lives on his very own
island in the Caribbean. "Do I miss it? I just love the British Virgin Islands.
When I'm there I'm active till nine at night - it doesn't get dark till then -
and here I know I'd be watching some television in the evenings in winter. You
know, it's just a different way of life."

It's this way of life that provides part of Sir Richard's defence against the
accusation that he fled the country for tax reasons. He argues that the coverage
has been "very misleading".

Armed with a Diet Coke, he says: "I've desperately wanted to go and live in
Necker for many years. I waited until I got into my 60s and have just decided
that it's more likely that I will be a more useful member of society until I'm
in my 90s by living and working in the most beautiful place in the world."

Sir Richard argues that if he'd wanted to avoid tax he would have worked full
time from the island when he bought it aged 28. He maintains that from an income
point of view it makes no difference whether he lives in Britain or on Necker.

"My income from speeches is about £6m-£8m, 100pc of which I give to charity, so
whether I lived [in Britain or elsewhere] it would be tax-free anyway.

"And then I make a smallish salary, which I give to charity as well. I work
bloody hard. I travel the world for six months of the year working my balls off,
it's pretty well all not for profit.

"I've made enormous amounts of money while I've lived in England [which has all
been taxed and] which I can live off for the rest of my life and my children
could live off for the rest of their lives."

The negative press surely must have hurt. "I think I've got a thick skin over
the years and we've got 11 or 12 million followers on our social media and the
great thing about that is I can respond.

"In the past, once a newspaper had written something and you felt it wasn't
written in the way you'd like it, maybe you could write a little letter in to
correct the impression. Now we can actually reach millions of people and put
things right very quickly and looking at the feedback from the public, most
people I think know what the situation is."

Of course, Sir Richard cashed in on being a popular, patriotic British
entrepreneur and taking on the bigger guy - often British Airways. Does he feel
like he's public property? "Yes, I think that's fair comment and reputation's
important so you've got to fight to defend [it] on occasions. And you've got to
do your best not to let people down."

There are a lot of people not to let down. After our interview he's off to meet
the President of Kenya, who wants to thank him for his support in the aftermath
of the recent terrorist atrocity.

"We'll be talking about the fact the British Government has warned people not to
come to Kenya because of the horrible thing that took place in the mall there. I
tweeted and blogged that I thought it was wrong of them to do that and it was
wrong when they did it with Bali.

"You don't do it when America has a 9/11 attack, we wouldn't expect Kenyans to
do it to us when we have a bus blowing up in our streets."

Virgin Atlantic, he says, doesn't fly to Kenya, so he wasn't motivated by
business interests. From Kenya, Sir Richard will move on to Cape Town for a
meeting with The Elders, a group of international global leaders he set up to
work for peace and human rights.

Although Sir Richard operates on the international stage, the interests of
Britain in the global economy are still important to him. Leaving the European
Union would, he says, be madness and he's opposed to the promise of an in/out
referendum in 2017.

"We've already made up our mind to be part of Europe," Sir Richard says. "It's
ridiculous to have to go through a whole process again, [an] unsettled process.
Our European partners are pretty exasperated with Britain anyway. I can see why,
politically, David Cameron had to do what he did, but we made a decision years
ago.

"We should just get on with it, stick with the decision and not dither."

There is also, he adds, always the danger the referendum could go, as he puts
it, against Britain, which would be devastating for the economy.

It would make very little difference to Virgin, he says, because it's a global
brand. "But there's a lot of Britain's companies it would do enormous damage
[to] and therefore to jobs and I think it would set Britain back enormously."

As he's admitted before, Sir Richard says he once tried not to pay the 35pc
export tax on records shipped to France or Belgium and that it was a mistake. At
the time - in his early 20s - he spent the night in a cell on a bare, plastic
mattress with an old blanket before later negotiating an outof-court settlement
with Customs and Excise.

Now, he thinks it would be a disaster for this country suddenly to have to start
paying tax for exporting goods into Europe and for Brits not to be able to live
in Spain and Italy or work in France and Germany.

But above all he sees the EU as a deterrent to conflict. "My generation is the
first that hasn't been to war in Europe and people forget that.

"We're never going to go to war with each other as part of a European Union
where people get married together, where people can live and work in each
other's countries. There's always little niggles, there are going to be laws
that people are not going to like, but Britain should be part of trying to
improve [these]."

The other major issue on Sir Richard's radar is, unsurprisingly, aviation. And
on this issue he is heartily sick and tired.

"There hasn't been another runway [at Heathrow] since 1945 or 1946 and Great
Britain has been held back as a result," he says.

Never mind a third runway, Sir Richard thinks there should be a fourth one, too.
This summer Gatwick announced its preferred location for a second runway of its
own, but Sir Richard wants more - "Two [new ones] if we're going to compete with
Europe generally," he argues.

Due to the capping of Virgin Atlantic's runway slots at an overcrowded Heathrow,
Sir Richard says the company has ground to a halt in the UK.

"It doesn't matter to Virgin at all, because the moment we capped out in the UK
we went to Australia, we went to America, we went to places which welcomed us.
But it's sad for Great Britain that that investment is not taking place and the
damage that's been done to the UK is massive. China - all those planes are
pouring into Europe, they're not coming to the UK.

"We haven't been able to launch any services into South America because we don't
have the slots."

He blames the Government, this one and previous ones. "We need all parties to be
brave and do what's right for Great Britain and not what's right for shortterm
political expedience," he says.

When we move on from planes to trains, Sir Richard says he's broadly in favour
of the High Speed 2 rail plan that it is claimed would cut journey times
significantly between London and cities further north.

But he urges the Government to consult more widely with the industry. "I think
there's a danger that you shouldn't have engineers be the lead planner in a
scheme like this without a lot of commercial input to make sure that it works,"
he says.

Whatever happens, Sir Richard argues, there have to be incremental improvements
on the West and East Coast lines.

Despite his fears about runways and the EU referendum, Sir Richard says he's
optimistic about the British economy.

"Not just about Britain, I think America, Britain, Europe generally are turning
the corner."

When I ask whether he thinks it's a good time to be starting up a business in
the UK, he says any time's a good time to do it - and not just in the UK but
anywhere in the world. Earlier in the day, Sir Richard helped to spearhead
Virgin's collaboration in a Government-backed scheme to provide loans and
mentoring to entrepreneurs who choose launching a startup over university.

"Even if you don't succeed, you're going to learn a lot more by setting up a
business and trying to make it a success most likely than going to university to
study about setting up a business and making it a success," Sir Richard says.

"It's fantastic that the Government has embraced it and I think this will make a
massive difference in the UK in the years to come."

Sir Richard, famously, never went to university. If a young Sir Richard were
starting a business today, what would it be focused on? "Energy is what makes
the world go round and therefore clean energy is what makes the world go round
in a clean way and I would certainly look at clean energy - something that
Virgin does anyway.

"This building here [where the interview is taking place in London] I'm sure
could save 50pc of its energy bill. I might come and do this building and offer
to save 50pc of the energy bill if they'd like to give me 50pc of the savings."

A greener future is something that preoccupies Sir Richard. He's excited about a
company that is re-funnelling the soot from aluminium or steel plants and
turning it into jet aviation fuel.

Virgin Atlantic, he says, has first option to use the fuel when there's enough
of it. "[It's] recycling at its very best: it's basically taking the s**t that
would otherwise be up in the earth's atmosphere and using it again."

Sir Richard thinks green air travel will definitely happen. "The other exciting
thing is the way that batteries are becoming more and more efficient and I think
one day we'll have planes powered by [them]." He says that his space programme,
Virgin Galactic, will be a very environmentally friendly way of getting around
the world.

"We're going to run out of fuel one day so we might as well start moving to a
world which is powered by solar, by wind, by clean forms of energy," he says.

Sir Richard is trying to speed the process up and has set up a "carbon war room"
with the aim of balancing the earth's carbon books by removing tonnes of the
element from the atmosphere without damaging industries or countries. Climate
Armageddon is definitely avoidable, Sir Richard believes, although he adds that
it would help enormously if governments also played their part by getting rid of
all subsidies of non-green fuels.

Sir Richard Branson is a man of contrasts. He's an unlikely looking knight, with
his black leather jacket and trademark long, golden hair and beard. For a man
drawn to the thrill of altitude-defying challenges - such as attempting to fly
around the world in a hot-air balloon - he's very down to earth.

For a brilliant self-publicist, he can come across as almost endearingly shy.
For a billionaire who lives on a paradise island, he is in some ways remarkably
un-showy ("I wouldn't feel comfortable getting out of a flash car").

And for a deep thinker who champions conflict resolution, he also has "enormous
fun". As he says himself, he's been involved in so many different areas that he
knows something about most things. Even tax.

There hasn't been another runway at Heathrow since 1945

£6m-£83Amount Sir Richard Branson earns from global public speaking - all given
to charity

I've made enormous amounts ofmoney while I've lived in England, all taxed

£2.87bn The full-year revenue for the year to February reported by Virgin
Atlantic

$250,000 The cost of a ticket for a trip into space with Virgin Galactic

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Richard Branson waving - and wearing - the flag for Britain at a
photocall in Dubai in 2006. Below, Virgin Atlantic staff in New York

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AN EU VOTE? RIDICULOUS;
VIRGIN FOUNDER LAUNCHES ATTACK ON REFERENDUM PLAN AND EXPLAINS WHY HE IS NO TAX
EXILE

BYLINE: MATTHEW STADLEN

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 643 words


SIR RICHARD BRANSON has described plans for a referendum on whether Britain
should be a member of the European Union "ridiculous" and that leaving the
economic bloc would badly damage UK businesses.

In a wide-ranging interview with The Sunday Telegraph, the entrepreneur and
founder of Virgin Atlantic, who says he now spends 90pc of his time working for
philanthropic causes, also defended himself against suggestions he has left the
country for tax reasons.

"My income from speeches is about £6-8m, 100pc of which I give to charity, so
whether I lived [in Britain or elsewhere] it would be taxfree anyway," Sir
Richard said.

"And then I make a smallish salary, which I give to charity as well. I work
bloody hard. I travel the world for six months of the year working my balls off,
it's pretty well all not for profit.

"I've made enormous amounts of money while I've lived in England [which has all
been taxed and] which I can live off for the rest of my life and my children
could live off for the rest of their lives."

While saying he understood why, politically, David Cameron had to promise a
referendum on Europe, Sir Richard said: "We've already made up our mind to be
part of Europe.

"It's ridiculous to have to go through a whole process again, [an] unsettled
process. Our European partners are pretty exasperated with Britain anyway.

"And there's always a danger the referendum could go against Great Britain,
which would be devastating for the economy."

If Britain starts having to pay tax for exporting goods to Europe, Sir Richard
said, it would be a disaster.

"My generation is the first that hasn't been to war in Europe and people forget
that," he said.

"We're never going to go to war with each other as part of a European Union
where people get married together, where people can live and work in each
other's countries.

"There's always little niggles, there are going to be laws that people are not
going to like, but Britain should be part of trying to improve [these]."

Sir Richard, 63, lives on the Caribbean island of Necker which he bought when he
was 28. He recently had to endure headlines claiming he was a tax exile.

Asked whether he now felt like a citizen of Britain or a man of the world, he
replied that he saw himself as the latter. He said living in Necker made no
difference "whatsoever" from an income point of view and that he has chosen to
live on the island because he thinks it is "the most beautiful place in the
world".

When asked whether he missed Britain, he replied, "I just love the British
Virgin Islands. When I'm there I'm active till nine at night - it doesn't get
dark until then - and in Britain I know I'd be watching some television in the
evenings in winter. You know, it's just a different way of life."

Sir Richard declared himself optimistic about the British, American and European
economies, saying they had turned the corner, but claimed that Britain was being
harmed because of weak government decisionmaking in the aviation sector. "There
hasn't been another runway [at Heathrow] since 1945 or 1946 and Great Britain
has been held back as a result," he said.

Despite the resistance to a third runway at Heathrow, he called for a fourth and
backed two new runways at Gatwick if Britain is to compete with Europe
generally.

"We need all parties to be brave and do what's right for [the country] and not
what's right for short-term political expedience," Sir Richard said.

"It's sad for Great Britain that that investment is not taking place and the
damage that's been done to the UK is massive. China - all those planes are
pouring into Europe, they're not coming to the UK."

The entrepreneur said he broadly backed the fast rail link from London to
Birmingham, High Speed 2, but called on the Government to consult more with the
rail industry on the plans.

£6m Income from speeches, '100pc of which I give to charity'

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Richard said: 'My generation is the first that hasn't been to war
in Europe, and people forget that'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 20, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Are you happy, Tony Hall, about the BBC's bias?;
The Sunday Telegraph

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 919 words


Now more than ever, we need a serious, honest debate about the impact on Britain
of migration from the rest of the European Union. From January 1 2014,
Bulgarians and Romanians will have free access to the UK labour market, and this
is bound to influence the outcome of next year's EU elections - as well as any
future referendum on our continued membership of the union.

British people are understandably worried about the impact of mass migration on
their services and the national finances. It is a concern that stretches right
across Europe. According to a Harris survey released last week, limiting EU
migrants' access to benefits is backed by 83 per cent of the British, 73 per
cent of Germans and 72 per cent of the French. Failure to tackle this sensitive
issue could result in a Right-wing electoral backlash across the EU that could
threaten its very existence.

It is odd, therefore, that the European Commission chooses to deny that there is
any real problem. Last week, it published a report arguing that so-called
benefits tourism was "neither widespread nor systematic". On the contrary, the
European Commissioner László Andor insists that the UK welfare system is
discriminatory, so he is bringing a legal action against our country to make it,
as he sees it, fairer. However, last week The Sunday Telegraph pointed out that
the figures contained within the Commission's own report show that there are now
more than 600,000 "non-active EU migrants" living in the UK, equivalent to the
population of Glasgow. In the same report, the annual cost to the NHS alone is
estimated at around £1.5 billion (the equivalent cost to France is just £3.4
million).

It is not reactionary to be concerned by those figures. We recognise that
immigration has brought huge cultural and economic advantages to the UK. But it
is legitimate to raise concerns about porous borders or the overburdening of the
welfare state. The data show that it is unusually easy to claim a wide array of
benefits in Britain if you are a migrant. We are one of only a handful of
countries in the EU that offer those out of work and looking for a job
noncontributory cash payments. We also provide assistance in the fields of
health, child benefit and housing that is generous by any standards.

Yet when we reported these facts, those sympathetic to the Commission's views
fought back. Troublingly, the BBC - which prides itself on impartiality -
appeared to take the EU's side. Last Monday night, the 10 O'Clock News broadcast
an analysis of the Commission's report by Mark Easton, the home editor for BBC
News. Its bias was, in our view, startling. Mr Easton interviewed a small sample
of Poles who insisted that they did not know anyone who came to Britain
exclusively for its benefits. He claimed that the Government had failed to
provide any evidence of benefit tourism - hardly surprising, since under Labour
no record was kept of claimants' nationality. Mr Easton pointed out that the
figure of 600,000 included retired people, students and families of those
working - a fact that we have never disputed and which does not undermine our
account, because all those people could be eligible for or claiming benefits. He
also stated that the Commission's report called the idea of benefit tourism "a
canard", when it never used the word.

How much of the other side of the argument was aired on the BBC's news package?
Theresa May, the Home Secretary, was afforded less than seven seconds to address
the matter in a hurried interview. By contrast, a European Commission spokesman
was allotted 11 seconds to discredit this newspaper's version.

This evidence of bias is worrying. Newspapers, after all, are privately owned
institutions that are free to express whatever political opinion they want - and
we are open about our editorial standpoint. By contrast, the BBC is funded by a
licence fee of £145.50 levied on the TV-watching public and, as a state
broadcaster, is supposed to be entirely neutral. According to its editorial
guidelines, "News in whatever form must be treated with due impartiality, giving
due weight to events, opinion and main strands of argument".

It is our judgment that the 10 O'Clock News report by Mark Easton did not meet
the standards set out in those guidelines. On the contrary, it was an example of
the BBC acting as a mouthpiece of the EU.

The BBC is a great national institution, but there has been cause for complaint
about bias before. Its news division spent nearly a week giving rolling coverage
of Ed Miliband's spat with the Daily Mail over an article it wrote about his
father. How the press deals with the families of politicians is a valid debate,
but the outcome was that the corporation gave the Labour leader day after day of
glowing coverage at the licence-fee payer's expense.

When Tony Hall was appointed director-general of the BBC last April in the wake
of the Jimmy Savile scandal, he pledged to make the organisation more
accountable and to restore the public's trust. We would like to ask Lord Hall
when that agenda will be extended to the news division, where blatant bias is
likely to damage the viewer's confidence in the broadcaster. Addressing
tendentious reporting is all the more necessary because the issues under
discussion are so important. When it comes to debates over migration, our
relationship with the rest of the EU or welfare reform, the public deserves
honesty and clarity. The subjectivity shown by the BBC will not do.

Immigration has brought advantages, but concerns remain

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 20, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Give Mitchell his job back, and show who's in charge;
The Police Federation claimed a scalp, quite unjustly. Voters need to know that
Cameron and co stand up to vested interests

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1180 words


The publication of Britain's growth figures on Friday is regarded by the Prime
Minister and his team as a moment to declare normal service fully resumed after
the distractions, stunts and - ahem - serialised political books of the
conference season. Nothing matters more to the Conservative leadership than its
command of the macroeconomic battlefield.

So there will be a visual attack on the Labour leader as "Mystic Ed, the world's
worst clairvoyant", comparing the economic predictions that Miliband and Ed
Balls made with what has actually happened. This is a calculated risk, of
course, since George Osborne had to adjust his own fiscal plans radically in the
2011 Autumn Statement. But the Tory objective is not primarily to prove the PM
and Chancellor more accurate seers than the two Eds, but to draw public
attention to what they see as the vacuous familiarity of Labour's macroeconomic
strategy: more reckless spending, higher taxes and more borrowing.

Between now and the election, you will hear the phrase "same old Labour" until
you can bear it no longer. But that's precisely the point: repetition to the
edge of nausea, repetition till those three words, those four syllables, are
ingrained in the listener's brain circuitry. Peter Mandelson called it "punching
the bruise". Cameron still kicks himself about the lack of focus that bedevilled
the 2010 election campaign. In 2015, under the fierce eye of Lynton Crosby,
there will be no such drift.

This election will be fought under the twin rubrics, "Let us finish the job" and
"Don't hand the keys back to the party that crashed the car". Patently, economic
competence will be the most important issue. As I have argued before, motives
and values will also matter ("why are these rich people trying to cut
benefits?"). So, too, will leadership, or "strong leadership" as Margaret
Thatcher more specifically described it, as she constructed the
quasi-presidential system her successors have inherited.

Which brings me to an anniversary and a recommendation. A year ago today, Andrew
Mitchell was marking his first full day as a backbencher, having resigned on
October 19. He had admitted to swearing at a police officer at the gates of
Downing Street, apologised and, quite rightly, been reprimanded. But he denied
absolutely having used the word "plebs".

I believed him at the time, and wrote as much. As a number of Mitchell's
colleagues, including Osborne, reflected, it did not chime with their knowledge
of the man. I was perplexed to learn that Michael Portillo had mused on a
latenight television show last week that he had heard Mitchell use the word in
private, and was not surprised that the former defence secretary, who has a
Castilian sense of honour, subsequently withdrew his remark.

In the year since his resignation, Mitchell has been rehabilitated with a speed
that would have seemed unthinkable last October. Thanks to the investigations of
Michael Crick and Channel 4 News, we now know that the police account of the
confrontation was wholly misleading (CCTV evidence shows that). An all-important
email supporting the police log's version of events was fabricated. The
Independent Police Complaints Commission ruled last week that three members of
the Police Federation had lied about what Mitchell said to them in a private
meeting (where are their resignations?). These investigations are not complete
but it is now beyond doubt that Mitchell was stitched up like a kipper.

Politics is a brutal game. You think journalists are "feral beasts"? The speed
with which many of Mitchell's fellow Tories deserted him was like something from
a documentary about the cruelty of the veldt ("now watch as the MP for Lichfield
- not an alpha, look at his mangy coat - tries to lead the pack away from the
wounded minister..."). Yet, now that Mitchell is back, you'd think they'd all
been at his side when it counted.

The relevant topic of conversation at last year's Tory conference was how to get
rid of him. At this year's gathering, in Manchester, the question was what role
he should take when he comes back to high office. A return to Cabinet or a spell
in Brussels as EU Commissioner?

The case for the latter is clear. As one Cabinet minister put it to me: "David
is going to need someone in Brussels that the party trusts on Europe." True: the
strategy that Cameron set out in January - renegotiation of Britain's EU
membership, followed by an in/out referendum by the end of 2017 - depends on
voters giving him a second term and his parliamentary party keeping faith with
him in a process that is bound to be messy. Having Mitchell in Brussels would be
of clear practical and symbolic value.

Yet there is a more straightforward way of putting right this wrong, one that
would also help Cameron more immediately and appreciably. Mitchell was appointed
Chief Whip for a good reason, which is that Cameron and Osborne knew they needed
someone outstandingly good at the job of parliamentary management in the
challenges that lay (and still lie) ahead.

As a former Maastricht whip, Mitchell already knew the job inside out - its
curious combination of menace and charm. Patrick McLoughlin, his predecessor, is
hugely admired by the Prime Minister as a sibylline source of wisdom, a former
miner who truly understands the lost realms of workingclass Toryism. But he was
unable to prevent or contain the Lords-reform rebellion - the calamitous
consequence of which was that Nick Clegg withdrew Lib Dem support from the
boundary review, perhaps denying the Tories victory in 2015.

Mitchell's successor as Chief Whip, Sir George Young, is a charming and capable
man - and a mysterious choice for this role. Most of Cameron's pile-ups of the
past year - Europe, the handling of party opinion on gay marriage, Syria - had
at their heart shambolic parliamentary management and extraordinary failures of
political intelligence-gathering. Counter-factuals are pointless. We cannot know
how Mitchell would have handled such problems. But it is certain that many more
such moments lie ahead.

So put him back in the job he left a year ago. This would be good for the
Government (with apologies to Sir George). It would also send a signal to all
those unions, professional associations and special-interest groups, that they
do not decide who occupies Cabinet posts. Mitchell's resignation set a perilous
precedent. The Police Federation was rewarded for its persistence. It claimed a
scalp, quite unjustly. In so doing, it encouraged every other vested interest to
fight reform by any means available. The lesson was: keep at this Government,
because, in the end, they'll buckle.

Voters need to know that Cameron and co are competent managers of the economy.
But they also need to know that the re-elected Tories would stand up to those
they challenge - whether trade unions or energy companies - and that HMG really
is in charge. Sometimes the best solution is the obvious one. Make Mitchell
Chief Whip (again).

'In It Together', by Matthew d'Ancona, is available from Telegraph Books at
£23+£1.35p&p. See www.books.telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 13, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AND BAD ONE FOR...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 77 words


Adam Afriyie More than 140 of the 147 Tory MPs elected in 2010 signed a letter
asking the Conservative MP for Windsor to drop his amendment to the EU
referendum Bill, which would bring the vote forward to next year. Afriyie's
appearance on Question Time on Thursday was widely derided.

Martin Johnson The World Cup-winning England rugby captain (right) was banned
from driving after being caught speeding at 107mph in Somerset. His wife and
children were in the car.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 13, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron must change tack to win votes back;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 369 words


SIR - You report that the entire leadership of some Conservative associations
are voting for Ukip ("Would you trust Nigel Farage to run the tombola?", News
Review, October 6).

David Cameron's policies include: allowing houses to be extended without
planning permission; building HS2; covering the country with wind farms;
retaining green taxes on energy; doing virtually nothing about abuses of the
human rights laws and joining forces with Labour in order to impose gay
marriage.

It would seem that Mr Cameron thinks that he will win back Conservative voters
by claiming that the only alternative to him is Ed Miliband. But he cannot use
the threat of that bogeyman to make us accept policies that are wrong.

Only by abandoning these policies, or better still by getting a new leader, does
the Conservative Party stand a chance of winning the next election.

John Boast London N21

SIR - James A Paton (Letters, October 6) remarks that "for the first time in a
long while, there is visible distance between Labour and the Conservatives".

But, as David Cameron's "castiron promise" of a referendum on EU membership
slides into the long grass beyond the 2015 election, is that "visible distance"
not eclipsed by the widening gap between the Conservative Party's leadership and
its members, almost half of whom have left since he became Prime Minister?
Richard Shaw Dunstable, Bedfordshire

SIR - Albert Einstein said that the definition of insanity was "doing the same
thing over and over again but expecting different results". The core Ukip
supporters to whom Iain Martin refers as "nihilistic" (News Review, October 6)
would at least have been recognised by Einstein as sane. But the latter would
have had doubts on that score for those Tories who go on and on voting
Conservative. Peter Lindsay Reigate, Surrey

SIR - At the local elections I voted Ukip. At the European elections I will also
vote Ukip but in the general election I will vote Conservative - a Ukip vote
could bring Ed Miliband into power. Gerry Abrahams Birchington, Kent

SIR - A few days ago I understand there was a "government reshuffle". Really? We
still have the same Prime Minister. I was hoping a Conservative would take over.
Dr A A Allen Dawlish, Devon

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 6, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CBI boss in talks with Germany to reform EU laws

BYLINE: JAMES QUINN ; KAMAL AHMED

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 386 words


THE CBI is to work with its German counterpart in an attempt to reform parts of
the European Union's regulations.

The business lobby group, which represents more than 240,000 companies across
the UK, is working with the BDI to enact reform in several areas, rather than
repatriation.

John Cridland, director general of the CBI, is believed to have held a number of
conversations with Markus Kerber, his opposite number, about the plan.

The two men are understood to feel that the EU's labour laws need to be reformed
in order to support economic growth in both countries.

But as well as repeal, the two men agree that there should be further
harmonisation in a number of areas, in particular telecommunications and
services. The discussions form part of the CBI's agenda to boost the playing
field for British industry.

They come ahead of what is expected to be the CBI's largest survey of its
members, on the subject of Europe.

Working with McKinsey, the management consultancy, the business lobby group has
been polling its members about their thoughts on whether the UK should remain
within Europe.

The survey has included approximately 100 roundtable discussions with member
companies as well as individual surveys. The final research is expected to be
published early next month, to coincide with the CBI annual conference on
November 4. Sources indicate that the research will show that an overwhelming
majority of CBI members think the UK should remain within the EU, but that they
would like reform in certain areas.

It is understood that the survey's results are broadly the same for large and
small companies, dispelling the myth that owners of smaller firms do not believe
they benefit from EU membership.

A recent separate CBI/ YouGov survey of more than 400 businesses found that if a
referendum on the future membership of the EU was held tomorrow, a substantial
majority of CBI members would support staying in, fearing an exit would affect
access to trading markets and business investment. Some 78pc of firms favoured
staying in the EU, while 10pc thought it was in their interests to leave.

At the time, Mr Cridland said: "The UK should take the lead on the push for
reform and make sure rules are evenly applied across the EU. Businesses are also
concerned about the UK gold-plating legislation from Brussels."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 6, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It's people who are the drivers of prosperity - not the state;
In Miliband's vision, the man with the iPad in Whitehall knows best; for the PM,
families are the dominant force of change

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1185 words


Truth to tell, it felt like a pre-election conference season. The two main
parties unveiled their respective "retail offers" as if polling day were just
around the corner, not 19 months away. The Lib Dems promised to keep order
should they again be called upon to make up the numbers in a Coalition. These
were not the closing arguments - those are yet to come - but the electoral
fisticuffs are well advanced, and the contours of the campaign landscape clear
enough.

For those who worry that politics has been drained of vigour, dignity and mass
appeal by a grotesque homogeneity, the past three weeks were good news. Ed
Miliband and David Cameron presented two quite different analyses, and two quite
different visions of Britain's future. They are as far apart as any prime
minister and opposition leader since Margaret Thatcher and Neil Kinnock, perhaps
even since the Iron Lady and Michael Foot in 1983 (Miliband's ideological
position relative to Kinnock remains a matter of debate). Among Conservative
Cabinet ministers in Manchester last week, the refrain was: "This really matters
now."

Let me nurse the convalescent economy back to full strength, says Cameron (he
used the phrase "finish the job" 16 times). Don't listen to him, says Miliband:
let Labour tackle the cost-ofliving crisis. The Tories offer equity loans,
evening access to GPs, help for married couples, tougher sentencing and fuel
duty rises postponed until at least 2015. Labour promises at least 200,000 new
homes per annum, energy bills frozen for two years, and free child care funded
by an increased bank levy. Britain can do better than this, insists Ed. Don't
hand the keys back to the team who crashed the car, declares Dave.

This policy bidding war might be wearyingly familiar, not to say
inconsequential, were it not that the intellectual underpinnings of each man's
respective "offer" are so radically different. Miliband's society is one in
which the state would play a much greater role, a Heath Robinson machine at the
heart of the nation, fizzing and clattering, and - above all - instructing. As I
pointed out the other day, his conference speech included, by my count, 36 uses
of the word "government". According to this vision, the gentleman with the iPad
in Whitehall really does know best.

For Cameron, the dominant force of change is not the state, but what he used to
call the Big Society. Its core institution is the family, which is why he
instinctively rooted his homage to entrepreneurs in admiration for his wife,
"winning her first customer, sorting out the cash flow, that magic moment when
she got her first business cards printed".

In this landscape, the state still has a considerable role to play - far too
great a role as far as Conservative state-shrinkers are concerned. But it is a
corrective role, plastering over the cracks left by market freedoms, and
performing the core functions that the British have decided are best furnished
collectively, such as health care, compulsory education and the funding for
public-service television.

Yet in Cameron's incorrigibly optimistic world, it is people, not governments,
that drive progress and prosperity. The state's role is to assist them, not to
mould them or steer them. The Help to Buy plan is a classic instance of a
state-sponsored scheme designed to broaden the freedom and self-reliance that
are so closely associated in the Tory tradition with the ownership of property.

Free schools, roundly rejected by the Left, are state-approved, but managed by
charitable trusts. Hardest of all, perhaps, Cameron and Osborne are seeking to
bring balance to the hopelessly expensive welfare system, reducing dependency
while maintaining civilised decency.

Herein lies the perennial challenge for the main governing party. Labour has to
prove its economic credibility. The Tories have to prove they have a heart.
Those Conservatives who dismiss this task as "touchyfeely" politics are in for a
punch in the face on polling day. "We don't dream of deficits and decimal points
and dry fiscal plans," said Cameron on Wednesday. Perhaps, but plenty of voters
still think that this is precisely what makes Tories tick.

Competence is no longer enough to win a majority in this country. And, to be
fair, the PM is well aware of this. What other post-war Conservative leader
would have dared, at the tribe's annual gathering, to declare social work "a
noble and vital calling"? This was Cameron at his restless best.

In my new book on the Coalition, In It Together, I describe the Tory leader as a
"cluster of paradoxes": most vividly of all, perhaps, he is a social reformer
condemned by circumstance to be an economic repairman. But what motivates him is
a vision of Britain - never successfully communicated to the public - in which
compassion is not the same as welfare, and society is not the same as the state.
Patently, this is very different from what Labour will be offering at the next
election.

Although the battle between Miliband and the Daily Mail has regrettably become
an annex of the row over press regulation, I think it is better seen as part of
this emerging argument over the future shape and values of British society. I
would be appalled if this row were used to justify statutory control of the
press, for its real significance lies elsewhere. In fact, it is not really a
media story at all.

The Mail was obviously within its legal rights when it declared that Ralph
Miliband, the Labour leader's late father, "hated Britain". The question is
whether it was right to do so. To me, at any rate, it seems that there is a huge
difference between "hating Britain" and hating a particular version of British
values. One of the glories of Britain is its pluralism, and its reluctance to
broaden the definition of the word "subversive". Miliband Sr was indeed a
Marxist, but he fought for his adopted country - a claim few of us can make.

Is British patriotism an approved checklist of affiliations or something deeper
and broader? There has never been a parliamentary equivalent of the House
Committee on Un-American Activities because that's not how we do things here. We
are an older, more confident nation. If Ralph Miliband "hated Britain", so did
George Orwell, William Blake, the Chartists and the dissenters who did so much
to drive parliamentary reform.

It is no accident that this battle between a hugely successful newspaper and the
man who may be the next prime minister threatened to eclipse Cameron's big day -
for the row and his speech are all part of the same national argument, the same
quest for collective selfdefinition. On the morning after the Commons vote on
Syria, Osborne said that there would be much "national soulsearching". Indeed
so, and the process was already well advanced by then.

This political, social and ethical audit will be accelerated by next year's
Scottish referendum, which may in turn be a dress rehearsal for a subsequent
vote on our membership of the EU. What sort of country do we hope to be? What
varieties of state and society do we want? For once, it really is true that the
next election is a battle for Britain.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 6, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Leaving the EU would solve the begging issue;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 240 words


SIR - There was an interesting juxtaposition on the front page last week. First
you reported on the Romanian beggars who were given taxpayer-funded tickets to
go home in the summer but who have already returned to Britain (report,
September 29).

Then, you quoted David Cameron saying in your interview with him that the
European Union deserves "one last chance" to change before voters are given a
say over whether Britain should quit in a referendum by 2017 (report, September
29).

Neither the beggars nor the EU have any intention of changing, but our
Government continues to give them the chance. Both problems could be rectified
with our own Single European Act.

Stanley Eckersley Pudsey, West Yorkshire

SIR - The problem of Roma beggars on the streets of London is a direct result of
the EU's freedom of movement of labour policy, but entirely against its spirit.
If the Romanian government wishes to maintain any sort of responsible reputation
within the EU it must work with our Government to prevent such an exodus and
cooperate in the return and retention of offenders. A joint police task force is
the first step.

Malcolm Allen Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire

SIR - David Cameron said: "We need to get out of this idea that Britain is
committed to evercloser union" (News Review, September 29). This provision is in
Title 1, Article A of the Maastricht Treaty, which Britain signed on February 7
1992. A W Maude Sutton-in-Craven, West Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 29, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HOUSE PARTY TORY MPS' HISTORIC COMMONS PICTURE

BYLINE: EDWARD MALNICK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 214 words


A unique picture has captured almost the entire Conservative parliamentary party
in the House of Commons.

The photograph was taken to commemorate the 90th anniversary of the backbench
1922 Committee and is released on the opening day of the party's conference
today in Manchester.

The vast majority of the 48 women and 256 men making up the party's MPs are
included in the picture, although George Osborne, the Chancellor, is among a
handful of absentees.

Notably, many of the party's female MPs are arrayed along the front, perhaps to
suggest that the parliamentary party is no longer made up of massed ranks of
men.

The photograph, thought to be the first of its kind, was taken in July on the
eve of the second reading of a private member's Bill that would introduce a
referendum on whether Britain should stay in the European Union.

The picture will be difficult to replicate in Manchester - a ComRes poll
suggested that more than a third of backbenchers were not planning to take part
in the annual conference.

James Gray, the MP for North Wiltshire, said he would not attend what he called
"a ridiculous waste of time".

"There are thousands of interest groups and lobbyists of every kind, and very
little opportunity for party members to contribute as a result," he said.

EDWARD MALNICK

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOHN DEEHAN/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 29, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Friends and rivals, the odd couple;
'I'm really very fond of Dave and one of his greatest admirers,' said Boris.
'It's my dirty secret'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 669 words


The relationship between David Cameron and Boris Johnson has been the most
obsessively followed of the Coalition - even though the Mayor of London is not
part of it

On Cameron's side, there was what one aide calls the "weekly mind-f---" of
Boris's Daily Telegraph column. In August 2008, for instance, the recently
elected mayor, in celebrating the success of Britain's athletes in the Beijing
Olympics, managed to scorn one of Cameron's most deeply felt beliefs, describing
the notion of a broken society as "piffle".No figure more clearly incarnated the
sheer bloody-minded, restless awkwardness of the hoped-for Big Society than
Boris. Cameron and Osborne understood this and saw a measure of disagreement
between City Hall and Whitehall as healthy.

Not so the mayor's Eurosceptic sabotage of the 2009 conference [calling for a
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty] or his claim, days before the same event in
2012, that the Government's "intended timetable [on aviation capacity] sets a
course for economic catastrophe". Such interventions were interpreted as hostile
and provoked a sharp response - by telephone call, email or, most often, text.
As Boris told friends: "Dave was pretty bloody direct."

According to one aide: "Boris would end up apologising. I went into his office
once and Boris was sending him a message: 'Mate, sorry, I messed up.' And then
the reply from Dave: 'Don't worry, I'll sort it out.'"

Just as the Coalition was, in practice, without precedent, so too was Boris's
political position. His stardom was one of the signals that the postwar unitary
state was breaking up. Neither a minister nor a parliamentarian, he nonetheless
wielded great power and influence as mayor of a global city, a master of the
media and the only true political celebrity in the country. By the time Cameron
was ready to unveil his strategy for the EU he needed Boris's approval.

On September 30 2012, the mayor and his family arrived at Chequers for lunch.
The gathering, says one who was there, was like "a scene from a gangster film
where there's food and kids running around and normal family life but the two
dons are actually doing business agreeing who's going to get whacked". There was
high confidence on both sides that they could agree on the EU. If Boris could
soft-pedal his demands for a referendum for a month or two, his patience would
be rewarded by Cameron's speech.

Those who knew the mayor best said that, ruthlessly ambitious as he undoubtedly
was, he also felt constrained by a classical sense of loyalty to Cameron that
verged on sentimentality.

Though Heseltine was one of his mentors, he did not see Cameron as his
predecessor MP for Henley had seen Thatcher. He would not be one of the
assassins wielding the dagger in Pompey's portico.

"I have a dirty secret," he confessed to one friend in the privacy of his City
Hall office, "which is that I'm actually very fond of Dave and one of his
greatest admirers." Cameron, too, wanted Boris rather than Ken to be mayor.
Johnson's battle was with everyone else. On the night of his second victory over
Livingstone, he spoke to Cameron. "This is my last election, Dave," he said. "I
want to go and earn some money." Cameron could not conceal his disbelief.
"That's b-------," he said.

Indeed it was. Johnson's formula when asked about his prime ministerial
ambitions had been to issue a non-denial denial.

"My chances of becoming prime minister," he told an audience at the Hay Festival
in June 2012, "are only slightly better than being decapitated by a Frisbee,
blinded by a champagne cork, locked in a fridge or being reincarnated as an
olive." It was psychologically revealing that he always spoke about probability
rather than volition.

By the middle of 2012, he was beginning to tiptoe towards candour about his
ambitions. In the same month, he told New York magazine: "We have to have a new
airport. One of the only reasons I want to assume supreme power in England is to
make sure that happens."

Pause. "For God's sake, don't quote me saying that."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Johnson and David Cameron worked closely during the Olympic and
Paralympic Games in London. But the Mayor of London cannot always hide his wider
ambitions
PETER MACDIARMID/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 29, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Merkel advised Prime Minister on key EU speech

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 373 words


On January 23 this year, David Cameron delivered a longawaited speech promising
an in-out referendum on EU membership in the next parliament. As he prepared to
speak, Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, offered her advice.

Cameron's closest relationship in Europe by far was with Merkel. There was
genuine warmth between the two politicians, often compared by observers to the
relationship between a fond aunt and her occasionally errant nephew.

Merkel loved Chequers, and liked to spend the evening there catching up on
Midsomer Murders, one of her favourite shows (Cameron's team even tried to
arrange a meeting with John Nettles, who played DCI Barnaby). To return the
favour, the German Chancellor invited the PM and his family to her own official
retreat, Schloss Meseberg, an eighteenthcentury Prussian manor house about fifty
miles north-west of Berlin. Cameron's wife and children warmed to Merkel, too,
which made her visits all the more enjoyable. She also understood that Britain's
relationship with the EU was as distinctive as her own country's. In this
respect, a visit to John Gummer's constituency, Suffolk Coastal, when they were
both environment ministers, had opened her eyes to the reality of British
Euroscepticism and the domestic context in which Cameron was addressing the
European Question. In her conversations with the PM more than a decade later,
she would still refer to the stern patriots of Suffolk Coastal "in terrified
tones".

When Cameron told Merkel that he intended to make a speech that would define his
European strategy, she listened and gave him what counsel she could, making
clear how earnestly she hoped that Britain would remain part of the EU. "Couch
the speech in an argument about Europe having to change," she advised; it was
important that he be seen to be arguing for a better Europe, not just a better
deal for Britain.

Merkel also warned Cameron not to deliver the speech, as he had planned, on
January 22 2013 - the 50th anniversary of the Élysée Treaty signed by De Gaulle
and Adenauer, to be marked by a grand celebration in Berlin. "That'll go down
very badly," she said.

Instead the speech was delivered a day later at the London headquarters of
Bloomberg, the American media company.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Merkel is said to have a fond aunt's warmth for David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 29, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Victory in Europe but a Clegg 'hissy fit'

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 332 words


In December 2011, following overnight talks with EU leaders in Brussels, David
Cameron vetoed an EU-wide treaty change intended to tackle the eurozone crisis,
declaring that it was not in the UK's interests.

On his return from Brussels after the summit, Cameron was hailed a hero by Tory
backbenchers gathered for a dinner at Chequers. Meanwhile, Clegg was seething.
On hearing the news very early on December 9, his initial reaction had been one
of shocked resignation rather than fury. He saw little option but to distance
himself from the Eurosceptic celebrations and hold his fire.

But on the Saturday he took soundings and decided to speak out. Richard Reeves,
his strategy director, urged him to stand up for what he believed, and for his
very clear conviction that the national interest would be damaged by
self-indulgent isolation. On Sunday, Clegg told the BBC's Andrew Marr that he
was "bitterly disappointed by the outcome of the summit", adding that there was
now a real danger that the UK would be "marginalised within the EU. I don't
think that's good for jobs, in the City or elsewhere, it's not good for growth,
and it's not good for families up and down the country."

Behind the scenes, he complained to his senior Tory colleagues that the lack of
consultation had been a disgrace and made a mockery of his position as Deputy
Prime Minister. "I should have been consulted!" was the refrain. Cameron's team,
meanwhile, was vexed that Clegg's tantrum was becoming the story and threatening
to steal the limelight from the PM's big moment.

According to one senior Tory: "It was like a toddler falling over. You know it
could go either way - totally fine, or a complete screaming fit. I think Nick
was persuaded to have a hissy fit and once he got going there was no stopping
him. It was real pinkcheeked fury."

If the AV referendum had been a parlour game for politicos, this was the real
thing. The Coalition would not break up over a single EU summit, but it was
creaking at the joists.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 29, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A PRIME MINISTER IN A HURRY;
As he prepares for this week's Tory conference, David Cameron tells Matthew
d'Ancona about how he plans to bring down rising fuel bills, encourage home
ownership - and deal with the Ukip question

BYLINE: Matthew d'Ancona

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 2190 words


On the day that David Cameron cut short his visit to Balmoral to oversee the
British response to the crisis in Nairobi, he walked from his office into the
Cabinet room - and was astounded by what he saw. Sir John Major, who seems to be
enjoying being an ex-prime minister more than he did the job itself, was hosting
a gathering of cricketing giants. Sir Garry Sobers, Mike Gatting, David Gower
and other titans of the crease were mingling where the Coalition's most senior
ministers hold their meetings.

You never know who you are going to bump into in No 10. On one point, however,
Cameron is more determined than ever: Ed Miliband is not going to get the chance
to find out.

The Labour leader's barnstorming performance in Brighton has visibly riled,
provoked and energised the PM, as he prepares his own speech for this week's
Tory conference in Manchester. Surely he acknowledges the panache of his
opponent's delivery?

"Look, it was a great miracle of memory - he managed to memorise the entire 1983
Labour manifesto and recite it! That was going to be in my speech, but I've
dropped that joke."

Taking the measure of his Labour opponent, he perches on the edge of his
armchair in the downstairs study. "I just think it's a mistake. If we want to
secure a recovery for all, if we want to build an 'opportunity Britain', we're
not going to do that by bashing business with higher taxes. If we want to build
more houses and give people the chance of home ownership, we're not going to do
it by confiscating land off people. I just think it's a very backward-looking,
very oldstyle prospectus. You're sending a message: 'Come to Britain and we'll
tax you more.' It's nuts."

Behind the scenes, plenty of senior Tories are concerned that Miliband's "retail
offer" of smaller utility bills and more housing - socalled "consumer socialism"
- may resonate with voters less interested in economic doctrine than in their
family's appreciable standard of living. Cameron's refrain is that the economic
disease has to be cured: it is not enough to patch up the symptoms. But he
acknowledges that "we can't just be the people who say we'll look under the
bonnet of the car and fix it, we have to explain our values and our
motivations". The Conservatives must do more to make their strategy of "fiscal
conservatism" and "monetary activism" voterfriendly.

"I think, first of all, we do have to do more to explain how we are going to
help people with the cost of living. But we have to make the big argument, which
is that, in the end, there is only one way you can improve people's living
standards - you have got to secure a recovering economy, secure good jobs, keep
the deficit down so that interest rates and mortgage rates are low, and then
you've got to cut people's taxes.

"Now we are doing all of those things, and Labour would do none of those things
- they'd borrow more so interest rates would go up, they are not committed to
cutting people's taxes, and they wouldn't provide the jobs that we have through
our flexible and competitive economy.

"On fuel bills specifically, I think we have to explain: Look, we want
competitive fuel prices, not for 20 months [a reference to Miliband's proposed
price freeze], we want them for 20 years and what that means is you have got to
make the market more competitive, you've got to access new sources of energy
like unconventional gas, you've got to make sure that consumers are put on to
the lowest tariffs. You've got to look at the causes of high bills rather than
just simply say something about the fact of high bills, a policy it seems to me
which actually unravelled within about 12 hours of it being announced. In the
end, Labour's problem is that no one trusts them to run the economy, and I think
last week can't have done them any good."

That said, he wants to make clear in Manchester a sense of urgency - with the
difference that, unlike Miliband, he is in a position to do, as well as to talk.
Hence, he discloses to The Sunday Telegraph that the start date of George
Osborne's "Help to Buy" scheme, under which the Government will provide up to
£12 billion of "guarantees" to encourage mortgage lenders to offer more generous
loans, is to be brought forward from January 2014 to next week. Far from backing
away from the controversial proposal, the PM and Chancellor are accelerating
their plan.

"Right now, the mortgage market is still broken, young people who have got a
decent job and have got decent earnings [still] cannot buy a house or a flat
because they have to have a £30,000, £40,000, or £50,000 deposit. Now, if you
haven't got rich parents, you can't get that sort of money, so the Help to Buy
scheme is not coming in next year, it's coming in next week, because I am
passionate about helping people who want to own their own flat or home."

By putting energy prices at the heart of the political debate, Miliband has
raised a series of interconnected issues. Osborne is known to have been
increasingly impressed by the former chancellor Lord Lawson's more sceptical
view of the orthodoxy on global warming - an orthodoxy reaffirmed last week by
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. I ask Cameron if he, too, has
shifted his ground on greenery.

"I'm certainly not more Lawsonian. It's worth looking at what this report this
week says - that [there is a] 95 per cent certainty that human activity is
altering the climate. I think I said this almost 10 years ago: if someone came
to you and said there is a 95 per cent chance that your house might burn down,
even if you are in the 5 per cent that doesn't agree with it, you still take out
the insurance, just in case."

The question, to stick with the PM's metaphor, is how high a premium to pay for
this security. Again, Osborne has signalled his concerns about green taxes and
subsidies - a cause of serious friction with Clegg, who privately fears that the
Tories were never truly committed to greenery. So Cameron chooses his words with
care.

"What we've done in energy is try to make sure there is a balance of different
technologies to give us a balanced energy supply. We do need some of these new
renewable technologies and that's why there are subsidies, but we shouldn't have
those for a second longer than they're necessary."

On wind farms - seen by many as an expensive blight on the countryside,
subsidised by the taxpayer to burnish the image of politicians who live nowhere
near them - the PM is equally diplomatic. "Recently, I opened the London Array,
the biggest offshore wind farm anywhere in the world, and it's good that Britain
is leading the way in this technology. But as I say, you shouldn't keep the
subsidies for any longer than is necessary." The young Tory leader who wore
recycled trainers has come a long way.

The price of power, quite rightly, is to be held accountable. On immigration,
Cameron accepts that "more needs to be done". Does he regret the controversial
"Go home or face arrest" vans? "No, not a bit, I don't at all."

On defence, however, he is touchy about some of the criticisms. "We still have
the fourth-largest defence budget in the world, and the cut in the defence
budget across a five-year parliament has been 8 per cent - so, of course, it's
difficult. The argument that I do find frustrating is the idea that with the
fourth-largest defence budget in the world, spending £33 billion on defence, we
don't have hugely capable Armed Forces - we do. In fact, the changes we've made
have made them more capable.

"If you look at the Army, go to Afghanistan now and ask our forces - as I always
do, twice a year - ask them, is there any equipment you don't have that you
want? Five years ago the answer was 'yes'. Today they say they've got really the
best equipment of any army in the world, including protective vehicles, better
body armour, better munitions, and all the rest of it. We have a hugely capable
Armed Forces and I get frustrated sometimes that people think that no change is
an option - it isn't. You've got to make sure they are properly equipped for the
future. But anyway, I'm letting my frustrations out!"

Cameron's tribal task in this, his eighth party conference as Conservative
leader, is to heal the wounds of a year that was scarred by furious divisions
over Europe, gay marriage and allegations that Lord Feldman referred to
grass-root activists as "swivel-eyed loons".

While contesting fiercely that Feldman ever said such a thing, Cameron
acknowledges that the "tough decisions" of government have taken their toll on
party unity: "That leads to arguments, it sometimes leads to intraparty
problems, yes, that's true." Now, however, he sees a renewed "sense of purpose
among the Conservative tribe".

On the HS2 rail link - deeply controversial for many Conservative MPs and
activists - he is absolutely not for turning. "First of all, we have got to
build a new West Coast Main Line. It's full. There are 4,000 people standing
every morning when they come in to that London platform at Euston, there are
5,000 standing every morning when they get in to Birmingham. So here's the
choice: shall we build an oldstyle Victorian one, or what about building one of
these new high-speed rail lines like every other sensible country in the world
is building? The cost of highspeed versus conventional is 10 per cent extra. Is
it worth spending 10 per cent extra to get a modern high-speed rail line? I
think it is.

"Second point, and this absolutely goes to your readers' concerns about whether
too much is being spent. In the next parliament - and I'm going to say this
slowly - between 2015 and 2020, we will be spending more than three times as
much on other road and rail schemes as on High Speed 2, a new North-South
railway line, as we should now call it."

On gay marriage, he is now responding to those MPs who complained that he was
more interested in legislation for same-sex union than in keeping his
long-standing promise to recognise David Cameron in the Downing Street garden:
'We can't just be the people who say we'll look under the bonnet of the car and
fix it, we have to explain our values and our motivations' marriage in the tax
system. "It has taken longer than I would like, because obviously we have been
battling with all the economic problems in front of us, and we've been in a
coalition." Tactfully, he omits to mention that Osborne has always been lukewarm
about tax breaks for married couples.

On Europe, the Tory party has taken a break from its decades-long
self-mutilation, uniting, at least for now, around James Wharton's Private
Member's Bill, which would give legal force to Cameron's promise to hold a
referendum on Britain's membership of the EU by the end of 2017. But the truce
is always under threat: Graham Brady, the chairman of the backbench 1922
Committee, has warned that the PM must flesh out his agenda for renegotiating
Britain's relationship with Brussels before the European elections in May. Some
Tory backbenchers are also calling for a referendum before the general election.

"The thing is, this is a renegotiation and then a referendum - and we do need
time to carry out that renegotiation. We need a Conservative government
reelected with the ability to then get in there and get the reforms to Europe
and the reforms of Europe for Britain that we need. On setting out the position,
I've already said some things - like we need to get out of this idea that
Britain is committed to evercloser union. We're not. We want it to be more
competitive, we want it to be more flexible, we want it to impose less cost on
businesses and wealthcreation."

On the question of Ukip, he is adamant that chasing their votes by heading off
to the Right is not the answer. Indeed, what he sees as Miliband's lurch to the
Left is the real opportunity. "There must be quite a lot of people who believe
in a free-market economy, who want a compassionate society, who support properly
run public services, who used to have a home in Labour and don't any more. I
think it is a good time to say to those people, you can have a home in the
Conservative Party.

"Yes, I want to win back voters from Ukip and I am the Prime Minister that
offers an in/out referendum, who is reforming welfare, who is sorting out our
immigration system, who is turning our economy round, who is backing aspiration.
But let me be clear: I am also a Prime Minister who is a modern, compassionate
Conservative, who believes that there is a very important role for government in
making sure that we look after the poorest in our society."

Almost eight years since he became Tory leader, and more than three since he
took office, is Cameron happy? "I'm content that I'm doing a job that I am
absolutely passionate about, I adore my family. I wish I saw more of them - but
in terms of really believing passionately in what I'm doing and loving my wife
and little ones - I'm happy."

As much as Cameron admires Sir John Major, this is not a man planning to join
the Ex-Prime Ministers Club any time soon.

"We do have to do more to explain how we are going to help people with the cost
of living

"We need to get out of this idea that Britain is committed to ever-closer union

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLARA MOLDEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 29, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Friends and rivals, the odd couple

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 669 words


The relationship between David Cameron and Boris Johnson has been the most
obsessively followed of the Coalition - even though the Mayor of London is not
part of it n Cameron's side, there was what one aide calls the "weekly
mind-f---" of Boris's Daily Telegraph column. In August 2008, for instance, the
recently elected mayor, in celebrating the success of Britain's athletes in the
Beijing Olympics, managed to scorn one of Cameron's most deeply felt beliefs,
describing the notion of a broken society as "piffle".No figure more clearly
incarnated the sheer bloody-minded, restless awkwardness of the hoped-for Big
Society than Boris. Cameron and Osborne understood this and saw a measure of
disagreement between City Hall and Whitehall as healthy.

Not so the mayor's Eurosceptic sabotage of the 2009 conference [calling for a
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty] or his claim, days before the same event in
2012, that the Government's "intended timetable [on aviation capacity] sets a
course for economic catastrophe". Such interventions were interpreted as hostile
and provoked a sharp response - by telephone call, email or, most often, text.
As Boris told friends: "Dave was pretty bloody direct."

According to one aide: "Boris would end up apologising. I went into his office
once and Boris was sending him a message: 'Mate, sorry, I messed up.' And then
the reply from Dave: 'Don't worry, I'll sort it out.'" Just as the Coalition
was, in practice, without precedent, so too was Boris's political position. His
stardom was one of the signals that the postwar unitary state was breaking up.
Neither a minister nor a parliamentarian, he nonetheless wielded great power and
influence as mayor of a global city, a master of the media and the only true
political celebrity in the country. By the time Cameron was ready to unveil his
strategy for the EU he needed Boris's approval.

On September 30 2012, the mayor and his family arrived at Chequers for lunch.
The gathering, says one who was there, was like "a scene from a gangster film
where there's food and kids running around and normal family life but the two
dons are actually doing business agreeing who's going to get whacked". There was
high confidence on both sides that they could agree on the EU. If Boris could
soft-pedal his demands for a referendum for a month or two, his patience would
be rewarded by Cameron's speech.

Those who knew the mayor best said that, ruthlessly ambitious as he undoubtedly
was, he also felt constrained by a classical sense of loyalty to Cameron that
verged on sentimentality.

Though Heseltine was one of his mentors, he did not see Cameron as his
predecessor MP for Henley had seen Thatcher. He would not be one of the
assassins wielding the dagger in Pompey's portico.

"I have a dirty secret," he confessed to one friend in the privacy of his City
Hall office, "which is that I'm actually very fond of Dave and one of his
greatest admirers." Cameron, too, wanted Boris rather than Ken to be mayor.
Johnson's battle was with everyone else. On the night of his second victory over
Livingstone, he spoke to Cameron. "This is my last election, Dave," he said. "I
want to go and earn some money." Cameron could not conceal his disbelief.
"That's b-------," he said.

Indeed it was. Johnson's formula when asked about his prime ministerial
ambitions had been to issue a non-denial denial.

"My chances of becoming prime minister," he told an audience at the Hay Festival
in June 2012, "are only slightly better than being decapitated by a Frisbee,
blinded by a champagne cork, locked in a fridge or being reincarnated as an
olive." It was psychologically revealing that he always spoke about probability
rather than volition.

By the middle of 2012, he was beginning to tiptoe towards candour about his
ambitions. In the same month, he told New York magazine: "We have to have a new
airport. One of the only reasons I want to assume supreme power in England is to
make sure that happens."

Pause. "For God's sake, don't quote me saying that."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Johnson and David Cameron worked closely during the Olympic and
Paralympic Games in London. But the Mayor of London cannot always hide his wider
ambitions
PETER MACDIARMID/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 29, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron: My mortgage plan for struggling families

BYLINE: TIM ROSS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1666 words


THE PRIME Minister today launches what he calls a "mission" to win over
hard-pressed families, with immediate help to get on the housing ladder and tax
cuts before the election.

In an interview with The Sunday Telegraph, David Cameron announces that the full
"Help to Buy" scheme, which will offer guarantees for 95-per-cent mortgages,
will start within days.

Mr Cameron uses the interview, on the eve of the Conservative Party conference,
to stake his personal authority on its success.

The scheme has already attracted warnings that it could contribute to a housing
bubble, but Mr Cameron said he wanted to tackle the "broken" property market
immediately. He also speaks up for his tax break for married couples, saying
that although he would have liked to bring it in sooner - and was stopped from
doing so by Liberal Democrat opposition - it was the right measure.

He also signals that taxes should be cut further as the economy recovers.

With under two years before the next general election, he outlines what will be
his core offer to voters - that only the Tories can be trusted to ease the pain
of rising living costs, by delivering a stable economy.

In a wide-ranging interview with Matthew d'Ancona, The Sunday Telegraph
columnist, the Prime Minister: Þ Describes the Labour Party leader Ed Miliband's
plan to hit big companies with higher tax bills as "nuts". He warns that Mr
Miliband's "backward looking, anti-enterprise rhetoric" shows that while the
economy is finally "turning the corner", Labour could "absolutely wreck it";
ÞDefends his tax break for marriage, which will apply to just one in three
couples as higher-rate taxpayers are excluded, insisting it is a case of
"promise made, promise delivered". It will be worth a saving of £200 to most of
the couples who benefit. Mr Cameron says this is "a very good thing" and "better
than what we said in the manifesto", which would have saved couples up to £150;
Þ Lays the groundwork for a radical immigration Bill, expected this autumn, to
stop immigrants with no right to free public services entering Britain and
claiming state support. "Our system is being abused in terms of housing, in
terms of health, in terms of legal aid. We need to crack down on every single
one of those things," he says.

"We are going to stop the idea of something for nothing."

The Bill is expected to contain laws to prevent foreign-born criminals using the
Human Rights Act to avoid deportation, the subject of a Sunday Telegraph
campaign. "More needs to be done," he admits; ÞSays the European Union deserves
"one last chance" to change before voters are given a say over whether Britain
should quit in a referendum by 2017, ruling out a vote before the election.
While he can "understand" the appeal of Nigel Farage's UK Independence Party, Mr
Cameron tells voters who want a referendum: "I am the one person that can give
it to you"; ÞSignals his determination to cut energy bills by developing shale
gas resources and ending government subsidies for wind farms as soon as
possible.

"We want competitive fuel prices, not for 20 months, we want them for 20 years,"
he says. Subsidies that support wind farms - very unpopular among grassroots
Conservatives - will not last "a second longer than necessary", he says. His
comments echo a Continued on Page 2

Continued from Page 1 warning by George Osborne yesterday that Britain should
not be "in front of the rest of the world" on green taxes; ÞHe hints that
communities could be given more generous payments to accept fracking in their
local areas. The existing offer of £100,000 per well and 1 per cent of revenues
represents the Government's "opening position", he says; ÞAnd Mr Cameron says
there is "a limit" to the amount the Government will spend on High Speed 2, and
the project will be delivered within the £42.6 billion budget.

With less than two years to go before the next election, Mr Cameron is under
pressure from within his own party to set out distinctive plans for securing a
majority Conservative government in 2015.

In the interview, he promises a "sharper focus" on the economy at this week's
conference to show that the party is "on the side of hard working people" with
ambitions to own their homes and start their own businesses.

The Prime Minister admits that the Conservatives must respond to the "enormous
issue" of the squeeze on living standards, and address the challenge posed by
the Labour leader's populist agenda.

"We do have to do more to explain how we are going to help people with the cost
of living," Mr Cameron says.

He says the "big argument" is that the "only one way you can improve people's
living standards" is to secure a recovery and "then you have got to cut people's
taxes".

His comments represent his first direct response to Mr Miliband, who set out
Labour's intention to champion consumers' rights through state intervention in
the property market, and a two-year freeze on gas and electricity bills.

Polling since Mr Miliband's speech last Tuesday suggests that his policies are
popular with voters, who have seen their energy bills rise sharply, while
average wages have stalled. Mr Cameron believes that too many young
professionals are being priced out of the property market because they cannot
raise enough money for a deposit.

The Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme will be brought forward from January
2014 to next week.

Under the scheme, the Government will provide up to £12billion of "guarantees"
to encourage mortgage lenders to offer more loans worth 95 per cent of the price
of a property.

The government guarantees are needed to reassure banks and building societies
because of the risk that mortgage holders with such high loan-tovalue deals will
default.

The scheme is expected to enable banks to release £130 billion of loans for
buyers of properties worth up to £600,000 who could not raise a larger mortgage
deposit on their own.

A smaller government loan scheme for people buying newly built properties began
in April.

However, the decision to accelerate the Help to Buy mortgage guarantee programme
by three months comes despite growing concerns from critics that it could cause
a housing bubble.

Mr Osborne, the Chancellor, has agreed to give the Bank of England the power to
intervene if there is evidence that the mortgage support scheme will contribute
to a rapid increase in house prices.

The concern from critics of Help to Buy is that there will be more buyers able
to bid for the same number of properties on the market, as a result of the
Government's action, driving prices up to unsustainable levels.

In the interview, Mr Cameron insists that it is the right policy to tackle the
"broken" housing market which requires young professionals, such as teachers and
nurses to provide a £40,000 or £50,000 deposit. "If you haven't got rich parents
you can't get that sort of money," he says. "So that scheme comes forward,
starting next week.

"That is a major move in terms of backing aspiration and home ownership which is
something very close to my heart."

Mr Cameron says he is proud to be honouring the long-cherished Conservative
commitment to recognise marriage in the tax system. The plan for a £200 tax
break will be enacted in next year's Budget and will come into force in April
2015.

"We are going to deliver," Mr Cameron says. "It has taken longer than I would
like because obviously we have been battling with all the economic problems in
front of us - and we've been in a coalition - but nonetheless I can announce
that we will in the next Finance Bill be legislating for recognising marriage in
the tax system."

However, the Prime Minister accepts that some supporters of the reform may have
wanted more, as an estimated eight million higher rate taxpayers will see no
benefit. Only four million couples who are basic rate taxpayers, where neither
partner earns more than £42,285 a year, will benefit. "It is focused on basic
rate tax payers and obviously I'd like to do more but I think it is right to
start with people who are on relatively low earnings," Mr Cameron says.

The Liberal Democrats, who oppose the plan, will abstain in the Commons vote
authorising the tax break next year. Labour said the reform would exclude anyone
who is "separated, widowed or divorced". Sir Gerald Howarth, a senior
Conservative MP, welcomed the tax break, saying it would encourage people "to do
the right thing", even though he regretted that millions of higher earning
couples would be no better off.

In the interview, Mr Cameron speaks of his "sense of mission" to make Britain a
success and describes a new "purpose" amongst "the Conservative tribe" to keep
Labour out of power.

However, in a rebuff to those on his own side who are demanding more traditional
Tory policies, he says: "I'm not chasing off to the Right, I'm very firmly
anchored where I have always been.

"Yes, I want to win back voters from Ukip," he says.

"But let me be clear, I am also a Prime Minister who is a modern compassionate
Conservative who believes that there is a very important role for government in
making sure that we look after the poorest in our society, that we are a
compassionate society, that we give people opportunities who aren't necessarily
born with them. We are not going to abandon that."

In a week when a United Nations report warned that there was a 95 per cent
certainty that humans were "the dominant cause" of climate change, Mr Cameron
calls for a "common sense" approach to cutting pollution.

Renewable energy is important but taxpayers' subsidies for wind farms must not
continue "a second longer than necessary", he says.

Britain must not "bear all the burden" for protecting the planet, he warns,
predicting a split with the Deputy Prime Minister, Nick Clegg, in the run up to
polling day in 2015 on plans for targets to cut carbon emissions.

"I remain a green Conservative but I'm a practical, sensible, common-sense green
Conservative and I think some of these people are slightly away with the
fairies."

Continued from Page 1 warning [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 22, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Right-wing party poised for electoral breakthrough

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 866 words


At the inaugural convention of Germany's youngest party, the Eurosceptic
Alternative für Deutschland (AfD), earlier this year, an elderly man with a neat
white beard unfurled a German flag and began waving it enthusiastically.

It was an irresistible image. With party founder Bernd Lucke speaking in the
background, the man quickly became a magnet for press photographers. That was
until a furious fellow member of the party ripped the flag from his hands in
disgust.

It was a neat illustration of the party's central dilemma. How to stand up for
Germany's national interest without arousing old fears that German nationalism
is on the march?

Today, AfD, a party born out of anger over the eurozone crisis, hovers on the
brink of an electoral breakthrough. A poll published on Thursday gave it a 5 per
cent share of the national vote - the threshold needed to win seats in the
Bundestag. While most other polls have put them at just slightly below that
level, there can be no question that the party's rise has rattled the German
political mainstream.

AfD is against the single currency, although it insists it is not anti-European
Union, and its rise has drawn comparisons with that of Ukip in Britain.

AfD argues that the euro threatens the EU's integration project because it
impoverishes some countries with uncompetitive economies, while burdening others
with the cost of bailouts and austerity measures.

The party primarily draws its support from the fear that the financial burden of
successive bailouts will ultimately prove too high for the German taxpayer. At
its first convention in April, Mr Lucke, pictured below, a boyish economist from
Hamburg, told the crowd: "Does anyone believe that the people accepted the idea
of paying for mismanagement in other euro-countries with hundreds of billions of
euros?"

The chief target of Mr Lucke's rhetoric has not been ordinary Greeks or
Spaniards but "American hedge funds, French banks, British insurance firms".

Ordinary people in Cyprus and Greece don't benefit from German taxpayers' money,
he told supporters. "They just get a sniff of it - as if you could be satisfied
by the aroma of a roast. The roast itself goes to the big financial investors."

The AfD also wants an immigration system based on attracting skilled workers
but, in an electoral landscape where every mainstream party is committed to the
euro, its call for a dissolution of the single currency is its USP. Nicolaus
Heinen, an analyst for Deutsche Bank, describes the AfD as the "great unknown"
of Germany's elections.

Pollsters have indicated that the AfD's support may be higher than predicted, as
its supporters may regard polling organisations as part of a distrusted
establishment.

Dr Heinen said: "AfD supporters are highly active in social media and street
campaigning. We should not underestimate the potential of AfD voters to mobilise
their families and circle of friends - that potential cannot be covered by
opinion polls."

In a tight electoral race, the AfD has come in for sharp criticism from Angela
Merkel's Christian Democrats.

Wolfgang Schäuble, the finance minister, attacked the party as a threat to
German prosperity and added: "Anyone who starts, like the AfD, with stoking
fears towards Europe, quickly moves towards stoking fears of immigrants."

The attacks on the AfD have not been purely verbal. Last month, a group of
far-Left activists knocked Mr Lucke to the ground at a campaign stop in Bremen.

Across Europe, anti-Establishment parties have surfed a wave of disenchantment
with the European Union and the single currency.

Beppe Grillo and his Five Star Movement, which campaigned for a referendum on
Italy's membership of the euro, made a breakthrough in Italy's elections this
February; in Britain, Ukip won 23 per cent of the vote at local elections in
May; in Greece, the radical left-wing coalition Syriza humbled the once-dominant
socialist party Pasok. But Germany is different.

It has been spared the pain endured by the southern countries of the eurozone.
Its unemployment rate is the second lowest in the EU; its economy, the biggest
in Europe, posted strongerthan-expected growth between April and June this year.
Mrs Merkel routinely boasts on the campaign trail that her country is the "motor
of growth, the anchor of stability."

The AfD has declared itself open to coalition talks with the CDU - though only
in the unlikely event that Mrs Merkel's party abandons its policy of supporting
the euro.

While the AfD's direct impact on European politics will be limited, it could
create "an important mouthpiece for eurosceptic positions in the German
Bundestag," according to Dr Heinen.

"If the AfD entered into Parliament, the next German chancellor would certainly
engage more in explaining the political need for continued euro bail-out
policies to the electorate, in order to take the wind out of the AfD's sails,"
he said. The prospect of losing voters to the AfD may also strengthen
euroscepticism within Mrs Merkel's party.

Although within Germany's mainstream politics, there is little scope for
criticism of the single currency, pressure from the AfD may make the CDU's
leadership more reluctant to countenance further European integration.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 22, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

David Cameron must act quickly to win back votes from Ukip;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 605 words


SIR - Ukip supporters could still switch back to the Tories if David Cameron
acts swiftly (report, September 15). He could give a firm date for the EU
referendum and set out measures to prevent the arrival of hundreds of thousands
of economic migrants from Bulgaria and Romania.

On human rights, we need fair, commonsense rules. The judiciary must be given
clear parliamentary guidance not to allow appeals for so-called "family" reasons
or the defence that anyone sent back to their country might be in danger. The
Armed Forces should be properly resourced once again. Ron Kirby Dorchester,
Dorset

SIR - Lord Ashcroft's survey showing that Conservatives are changing to Ukip
over Europe is a warning that Mr Cameron would be foolish to ignore. Since
making his speech in January promising a referendum on the EU he has done
nothing apart from passing a law confirming a referendum before 2017, which he
was forced to do by his backbenchers.

This law is worthless unless he wins the 2015 election, which looks doubtful at
present. As a result, a lot of people think he is not sincere and will try to
wriggle out of it when the time comes.

Christopher Carver Yeovil, Devon

SIR - Your report on Ukip taking votes in key marginal seats from the
Conservatives should be a warning to those who are considering to register a
protest vote at the next general election.

Ukip's support is spread across the whole country, not concentrated within
seats, which would be necessary to gain representation in Parliament. Therefore
it is pie-in-the-sky to think that Ukip will win enough seats at the election to
be the "king-makers" in a potential hung Parliament.

The disgruntled Tory voters and anti-immigration, Eurosceptic ex-Labour voters,
who are intending to vote Ukip, will be indirectly helping Labour return to
government.

Splitting the Right-wing vote will be akin to what happened to Michael Foot on
the Left in 1983. This will allow Labour to finish the job that they have always
been good at - bankrupting and ruining the country.

James Adam Paton Billericay, Essex

SIR - Current opinion polls suggest that it will be Ukip, not the Lib Dems, who
could hold the balance of power between the two main parties at the next general
election. Nigel Farage has said he will not contemplate a deal with the
Conservatives as long as David Cameron is the Tory leader. So, what if Ukip
enters a coalition with Labour and provides a curb on Labour policies? That
would put the cat among the Westminster pigeons. David Saunders Sidmouth, Devon

SIR - All the main parties, the Conservatives in particular, make the arrogant
assumption that only one of them has the divine right to form a government and
that the electorate must return to their fold rather than see their traditional
opponents elected.

If this were true, the Labour Party would never have arisen to replace the
Liberals. On the contrary, when a political movement speaks for a previously
ignored section of the people, it may very well replace the failed incumbents of
old.

If people will only continue to vote for what they really believe in then there
is no limit to the possibilities open to Ukip to transform the political
landscape.

Colin Bullen Tonbridge, Kent

SIR - Lord Ashcroft has warned that by voting Ukip, the electorate will get
Labour.

However, if they vote Conservative, Labour or Liberal Democrat, they will get
the EU, which rules Britain with the support of these three parties. If Ukip
receives a very substantial vote, this will make it untenable for the other
three parties to continue supporting the EU's undemocratic control over Britain.

Derek Bennett Walsall, Staffordshire

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 22, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stakes could not be higher for Cameron as Germany decides its EU direction;
COMMENT Daniel Johnson Result will dictate how far Merkel can go to keep UK on
board

BYLINE: Daniel Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32,33

LENGTH: 1143 words


TODAY'S GERMAN election may well decide the future of Europe for the next
generation. Its result may cause the whole Continent to rethink the structure of
the European Union in general and the eurozone in particular.

As 62 million Germans go to the polls, the stakes could not be higher for
Britain, too, because David Cameron is relying on Angela Merkel to deliver
enough concessions for him to win a referendum on British membership of the EU
in 2017.

Immediately after polling stations close at 6pm this evening, exit polls will
confirm that Mrs Merkel has won a third four-year term, making her the only
woman to have matched Baroness Thatcher's record.

After eight years at the top of German and European politics, she is the West's
most experienced leader and the only one to compare with Russia's Vladimir
Putin.

Mrs Merkel's triumph is not in doubt but the polls have narrowed her lead in
recent weeks and if her junior coalition partner, the liberal Free Democrats
(FDP), does badly, she will be forced to align herself with the main opposition
party, the centre-Left Social Democrats (SPD).

Such a "grand coalition" might undermine Mrs Merkel's ability to keep the euro
crisis under control and would certainly make any renegotiation of British
membership more difficult.

Downing Street sets great store by the personal chemistry between Mr Cameron and
Mrs Merkel but German electoral arithmetic and coalition politics will dictate
how far she can go in order to keep the UK on board.

Germany's proportional system ensures that this electoral arithmetic is far more
complicated than in Britain. Any party with 5 per cent of the vote is guaranteed
seats in parliament. Voters have two votes, one each for a candidate and a party
list.

Six parties are now represented in the federal parliament (Bundestag). Mrs
Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their Bavarian sister party dominate the
centre-Right, with up to 40 per cent of the vote.

The centre-Left is split between the SPD, at around 25 per cent, the Greens and
the former Communist Left Party, both with around 10 per cent.

The FDP has hitherto held the balance and at the last election in 2009 did well
to get 15 per cent, enabling Mrs Merkel to form a coalition with them. This
time, however, the FDP is struggling to reach 5 per cent and is praying that
enough CDU supporters will give it their second votes to help it stay in
parliament.

One reason why the FDP is in trouble is that it is losing support to a new
eurosceptic party, the Alternative for Germany (AfD). Its emergence has shocked
the German political and media establishment: Chancellor Merkel refuses even to
mention the upstarts, while others see them as the respectable face of the
far-Right.

In fact the AfD appears to be a moderate centre-Right party, led by academics
who disdain the populist charisma of a Nigel Farage. It is much closer to, say,
the British Conservatives than to pre-war German nationalists - indeed, like
UKIP, it has a policy of excluding neo-Nazis. By including "Germany" in its
name, it sounds a patriotic note that delights some voters but still makes many
others uncomfortable.

The AfD's professed aim is modest enough: to limit the damage done by the euro
crisis and prevent further loss of national sovereignty. It wants no more
bail-outs of bankrupt members of the eurozone, strict adherence to the rules and
the right to a referendum if EU demands conflict with the German constitution.

Polls have shown for some time that many Germans are disillusioned with the euro
and long for a return to the Deutschmark, though the AfD sees this as a last
resort.

However, the intellectual elite in Germany is questioning the European ideal as
never before.

A new book by the young historian Dominik Geppert denounces "the fatal
destructive power of the euro" and concludes that German politicians who neglect
national traditions and interests are "fixated on a Europe that does not exist".

Opinion polls have understated the political impact of this rising eurosceptic
tide in Germany. Polls differ on whether the AfD will cross the 5 per cent
threshold today but it is highly probable. Chancellor Merkel has already hinted
that the EU may have to "give something back" to the member states but, if the
AfD gets into parliament, she will come under greater pressure to listen to
ordinary Germans.

On the German centre-Left, too, attitudes to the EU are shifting. The answer to
everything used to be "more Europe" but the Greens and the Left Party are both
critical of the eurozone's austerity policies.

The SPD could form a "red-green" coalition but all three parties have fought
lacklustre campaigns and are unlikely to muster a parliamentary majority between
them, even if they could agree.

The SPD's rival to Mrs Merkel, Peer Steinbrück, has distinguished himself as
Germany's most gaffe-prone politician. Though he served as finance minister in
coalition with Mrs Merkel, his private finances (outside earnings of over
£1million) have landed him in trouble.

He did not endear himself to cash-strapped voters by insisting that he would
never buy cheap wine, while his decision to pose for a magazine cover with his
middle finger raised has made him a laughing stock. Such tasteless gestures are
in stark contrast to Mrs Merkel's voter-friendly, frugal and maternal image.

If the SPD does join a grand coalition with her, it needs a new leader. Both Mrs
Merkel and Mr Steinbrück have ruled out any coalition with the AfD but, by
ensuring that eurosceptic voices are heard, the German people may send a signal
to its politicians and the markets that it no longer feels able to bankroll
Europe.

That signal could have profound implications for Europe.

Mrs Merkel is the only democratic leader to have survived the crash; she has
done it by being a better listener than the likes of Gordon Brown, Nicolas
Sarkozy and Silvio Berlusconi.

If she concludes from today's election that German patience with the euro is
wearing thin, she may move swiftly and ruthlessly against eurozone countries
that are unwilling to stomach German budgetary discipline and its consequences.
We will then discover whether her finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, was right
to claim last week that the eurozone's troubles are now over.

To paraphrase Churchill, a new iron curtain has descended across the Continent,
between the German-dominated, exportdriven North, with its surpluses and
savings, and the Mediterranean South, with its deficits and unemployment - a
Europe of haves and have-nots.

This was not the dream that inspired a young East German chemist to go into
politics after the Berlin Wall fell.

Angela Merkel's historic victory today may leave behind a bittersweet taste.

Daniel Johnson is the editor of Standpoint (www.standpointmag.co.uk)

'Many Germans long fora return to the Deutschmark'

'A new iron curtain has descended across Europe'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Downing Street sets great store by the personal chemistry between Mr
Cameron and Mrs Merkel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 15, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stick with reformed EU, say SMEs

BYLINE: REBECCA BURN-CALLANDER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 346 words


EIGHT out of 10 British companies believe that leaving the European Union would
damage their export business even though the union needs significant reform,
according to a YouGov poll for the CBI.

British businesses are concerned that if the UK leaves the EU as a result of a
referendum, trade in EU markets will suffer, leaving the UK less competitive.

In a survey of 415 companies, the CBI found that 78pc of firms were in favour of
staying in the EU, including 77pc of small businesses. Just 10pc believe that
the regulatory burden from Brussels outweighs the benefits of being a member
state.

The eurozone is a key trading partner for British firms. More than threequarters
said that the ability to buy and sell products in the EU had a significant
positive impact on their businesses. Just 58pc said the same for other export
markets.

The firms polled said that there needed to be significant reform of the EU
including a reduction in unnecessary regulation. They also argued that rules
needed to be implemented fairly across all member states and that there should
be an end to the "goldplating" of EU legislation.

The survey also found that 75pc of CBI members believe that leaving the EU would
have a negative impact on foreign investment in the UK. In addition, 47pc said
it would make it harder to find skilled workers. Just 3pc said it would be
easier.

More than half said it would harm competitiveness, against 15pc who thought it
would help.

John Cridland, CBI directorgeneral, said: "This sends a clear message that most
CBI members, big and small, support UK membership of the EU. Firms want what is
best for jobs and growth, and there is genuine concern that an exit would hit
business investment and access to the world's largest trading bloc.

"The UK should take the lead on the push for reform and make sure rules are
evenly applied across the EU. Businesses are also concerned about the UK
gold-plating legislation from Brussels. Businesses do have some serious concerns
about the EU, but ultimately they want the UK inside the tent winning the
argument for reform."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 15, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip vote wrecking Cameron's election hopes and letting in Labour;
Lib Dems slip away as Ukip gains ground

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 1064 words


THE RISE of the UK Independence Party is squeezing Conservative support in key
marginal constituencies around Britain and could put Ed Miliband in 10 Downing
Street, a new opinion poll shows today.

The survey by Lord Ashcroft, the former Conservative deputy chairman, gives
Labour a 14-point advantage in the 32 seats which have the smallest current Tory
majorities over Mr Miliband's party.

Labour's 14-point lead in their target seats compares with a national lead of
five points (35 per cent to 30 per cent) over the Tories in a "comparison" poll
of the whole country also undertaken by the peer. The huge poll of marginals,
which covers nearly 13,000 voters in 40 Conservative-held constituencies, does
offer some comfort to David Cameron who is seen as the best choice as prime
minister.

It also suggests that at the next election, in May 2015, the Tories will hold
seats where they are currently defending narrow majorities from Liberal
Democrats.

However, it is the surge by Ukip, taking votes from the Conservatives and
letting in Labour, which is causing the most disquiet at 10 Downing Street and
Conservative Campaign www.Headquarters.No political party presently has the
money to compile regular polls in key marginals on the scale of today's survey
by Lord Ashcroft, the first of its kind for two years.

The peer said Mr Miliband could become prime minister with a "comfortable
majority" if the Ukip surge held. The Tories should concentrate on showing they
were "on the side of ordinary voters", he added. Grant Shapps, the Conservative
Party chairman, had unveiled a "40/40" election strategy focusing resources on
the Tory's 40 most vulnerable seats and 40 other constituencies in which they
are close challengers.

Lord Ashcroft's poll covers the 40 Tory seats with the slimmest majorities and
puts Ukip support in them in double figures, more than tripling the average
three per cent vote share recorded by Nigel Farage's party in the 2010 election.

Ukip's surge has helped squeeze the Tory vote and provide an 8.5 per cent swing
to Labour since the 2010 election in the 32 marginals, enough for Mr Miliband's
party to win all of them. In the 32 seats Labour led the Conservatives by 43 per
cent to 29 per cent, a result likely to hand Labour a Commons majority of around
60 per cent. Ukip were on 11 per cent with support for the Lib Dems slumping to
just eight per cent.

In eight Tory-held seats which are Lib-Dem targets, the poll results suggest Mr
Cameron's party will hold all of them, despite Ukip's strong showing. In these
seats the Conservatives are on 32 per cent, with the Lib Dems on 29 per cent,
Labour on 18 and Ukip on 12.

Asked who would make the best prime minister, 39 per cent of voters across all
40 marginals chose Mr Cameron, with 26 per cent opting for Mr Miliband and 12
per cent for Nick Clegg.

Labour will take some cheer from the poll which comes after a bruising summer
for Mr Miliband in which his leadership came under attack from his own side.
However, the survey shows Labour has made no further progress in its Toryheld
targets since 2011. In a similar poll two years ago, Lord Ashcroft found Labour
on 44 per cent in their targets, compared with 43 per cent today. Support for
the Tories over the same period has fallen by six points from 35 per cent to 29
per cent.

Lord Ashcroft said: "Though this is only a snapshot, the picture is clear,
despite their narrow national poll lead, Labour are further ahead in the
marginals where it matters. Labour have made progress in the last two years, but
if Ukip does as well at the general election as this poll suggests, Ed Miliband
could become prime minister with a comfortable majority.

"But it is not close to being over yet. Labour have to establish real trust on
managing the economy, David Cameron is still seen as the best prime minister and
more people say Britain is heading in the right direction than the opposite."

Polls of marginals have played a key role in framing decision-making in the
past, most notably when a 2007 survey helped persuade Gordon Brown not to stage
a snap general election.

Last night Mr Cameron came under pressure from one MP to hold an in-out
referendum on European Union membership before the 2015 election to kill off the
Ukip threat.

Adam Afriyie, MP for Windsor, who has been at the centre of speculation that he
would campaign for the leadership, said the Conservatives need an eight to
10-point lead to win the next election and an increase in Ukip's polling of just
one or two per cent would put Mr Miliband in Downing St.

"People aren't sure the Conservative party will follow through with a referendum
," he said. "I believe the people should have a referendum on EU membership this
side of the election."

Researchers polled 12,809 adults by telephone between Aug 1 and Sept 5 in the 40
most marginal Tory-held seats. Three hundred interviews were made in each of the
32 seats where Labour were second at the 2010 general election, and 400 in each
of the eight seats where the Lib Dems were second.

For comparison, 1,005 adults across Britain were interviewed by telephone
between Aug 30 and Sept 1.

CONFERENCE NOTEBOOK

SCHOOLS are to be told to make sure parents are not forced to overspend on
uniforms, David Laws, the schools minister, will say today. He is to issue
guidance saying schools should avoid having single official suppliers of
uniforms and should select items that can be found in supermarkets or at good
prices elsewhere.

THE Liberal Democrat spring conference could be scrapped next year over concerns
about the party's finances. The event, to be held in March in York, will lose
too much money, party officials believe. Plans for dealing with the overspend
include cutting the length of the spring gathering or increasing attendance fees
to £100.

JO SWINSON, the consumer minister, is seen as the Lib Dems' brightest hope for a
woman leader but the party fears she could lose her 2,184 majority in East
Dunbartonshire to Labour in 2015. Her re-election campaign was the sole
beneficiary of this year's conference dinner last night.

TODAY'S agenda in the hall includes:

10.20am Green growth

12.30am Speech by Ed Davey, Energy Secretary On the fringe:

1pm Launch of campaign against sexual harassment

1pm Danny Alexander on alternatives to Trident Tomorrow:

12.30pm Vince Cable speech

2.45pm Nick Clegg Q&A

'Miliband could become PM with a comfortable majority'

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 8, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Merkel ready for a fight with Brussels

BYLINE: JEEVAN VASAGAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 308 words


ANGELA MERKEL enters the final stage of her campaign for re-election as German
chancellor today amid signs that her expected victory will see her join
Britain's effort to win back powers from Brussels.

At a stadium in Düsseldorf, Mrs Merkel is expected to remind supporters of her
Christian Democratic Union (CDU) that Germany has escaped the high unemployment
endured by Spain and Greece.

But a poll last week showed the impact on public opinion of the eurozone crisis
- and German-funded bail-outs for countries such as Greece. The message is
simple: most Germans think they have shown enough generosity and believe their
next government must not write any more cheques.

The survey by YouGov Deutschland found that 52 per cent of Germans want their
leaders to withhold any more loans, 57 per cent oppose cancelling more debts and
55 per cent think that southern European countries should simply leave the
eurozone.

Almost two thirds say the next chancellor - due to be chosen on September 22 -
would have a mandate to give more aid to the eurozone only if a referendum was
held.

Reflecting the public mood, Mrs Merkel has suggested that the European Union
should ask if it can "give something back" to national governments.

Her spokesman, Steffen Seibert, described the repatriation of powers from
Brussels to national governments - a key objective of British diplomacy - as "a
sensible idea". He told Bloomberg news agency that there was a "high degree of
concentration of regulation" in the hands of the European Commission.

Michael Wohlgemuth, the Berlin director of Open Europe, which campaigns for
reform of the EU, stressed the importance of German public support for the
repatriation of powers. "A substantial part of [German] voters really support
that idea. So perhaps it comes as no surprise that some politicians like to hint
at it," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 8, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Merkel ready for a fight with Brussels

BYLINE: JEEVAN VASAGAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 308 words


ANGELA MERKEL enters the final stage of her campaign for re-election as German
chancellor today amid signs that her expected victory will see her join
Britain's effort to win back powers from Brussels.

At a stadium in Düsseldorf, Mrs Merkel is expected to remind supporters of her
Christian Democratic Union (CDU) that Germany has escaped the high unemployment
endured by Spain and Greece.

But a poll last week showed the impact on public opinion of the eurozone crisis
- and German-funded bail-outs for countries such as Greece. The message is
simple: most Germans think they have shown enough generosity and believe their
next government must not write any more cheques.

The survey by YouGov Deutschland found that 52 per cent of Germans want their
leaders to withhold any more loans, 57 per cent oppose cancelling more debts and
55 per cent think that southern European countries should simply leave the
eurozone.

Almost two thirds say the next chancellor - due to be chosen on September 22 -
would have a mandate to give more aid to the eurozone only if a referendum was
held.

Reflecting the public mood, Mrs Merkel has suggested that the European Union
should ask if it can "give something back" to national governments.

Her spokesman, Steffen Seibert, described the repatriation of powers from
Brussels to national governments - a key objective of British diplomacy - as "a
sensible idea". He told Bloomberg news agency that there was a "high degree of
concentration of regulation" in the hands of the European Commission.

Michael Wohlgemuth, the Berlin director of Open Europe, which campaigns for
reform of the EU, stressed the importance of German public support for the
repatriation of powers. "A substantial part of [German] voters really support
that idea. So perhaps it comes as no surprise that some politicians like to hint
at it," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 1, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM handed 'shopping list' of Europe opt-outs

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 441 words


DAVID CAMERON must opt out of financial, social and employment red tape, and win
back control of UK fishing waters as he renegotiates for a better deal with the
European Union, a report recommends.

The Prime Minister should also demand the right to stop some European migrants
claiming benefits and free the UK to make trade pacts with countries outside the
EU, says the study by Civitas, a Rightof-centre think tank.

Its "shopping list" of measures includes a British get-out from controversial
European Arrest Warrants and major reform of the Common Agricultural Policy.

If the Conservatives win the 2015 general election, Mr Cameron has pledged to
renegotiate the terms of Britain's EU membership then hold an "in-out"
referendum by 2017 to see if the public want to stay in under the new terms.

However, European politicians and officials have cast doubt over Britain's
ability to greatly alter its place in the single market.

Eurosceptic MPs are worried the Prime Minister's ambitions are too modest to
satisfy the back benches.

The 82-page Civitas paper sets out changes the Prime Minister should prioritise,
such as securing the right to stop migrants from Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia
receiving Job Seekers' Allowance, housing benefit and other welfare payments
until they have paid UK taxes.

It also suggests member states, rather than the EU, decide how to spend their
money from the Common Agricultural Policy. The report also urges Mr Cameron to
win the right to deport non-EU nationals who pose a threat to the UK -regardless
of worries over the individual's personal safety, although this relates to the
European Court of Human Rights, a separate body. It follows a decade-long
struggle to deport radical cleric Abu Hamza to the US.

Control of employment and social regulation and laws affecting the City of
London should also return to the UK.

The recommendation to withdraw from the European Arrest Warrant follows
concerns, highlighted by The Sunday Telegraph, that it is used to hand more
suspects to other countries than are received to face justice here.

Glyn Gaskarth, the report's author, said it highlighted the gap between the UK's
vision and the "compromises our EU partners are willing to make". "Negotiations
must be evidence-based," he said. "They cannot succeed if the UK does not have a
firm idea of what it desires and what it is willing to accept. Having those firm
ideas makes it more likely the negotiations will succeed. If the UK's proposals
are rebuffed or watered down, those pushing for exit will be emboldened. The EU
would be shown to be incapable of reform."

'Mr Cameron's negotiations must be based on firm ideas'

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 25, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Miliband gets all-time low rating in poll;
Labour wobbles as Miliband style s turns off voters

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 507 words


ED MILIBAND suffers a new blow today as a poll shows that the number of people
who think he is doing a "good job" as Labour leader is at an all-time low.

His embattled leadership was rated positively by 21 per cent of those surveyed
for The Sunday Telegraph, with 51 per cent labelling his track record "bad". In
September 2011, the "good" figure was 34 per cent. Although the poll, conducted
by ICM, gave Labour a slight lead, it was within the margin of error and experts
warned that the Tories could retake the lead imminently if Mr Miliband's
performance did not improve.

The poll of 2,013 people online between August 21 and August 23 gave Labour 32
per cent of the vote, the Tories 30 and the Liberal Democrats 16. The UK
Independence Party was on 12 per cent.

A series of senior Labour figures have recently questioned Mr Miliband's
leadership style. Andy Burnham, the shadow health secretary, has urged Labour to
"shout louder", while Peter Hain, John Denham, David Blunkett and Lord Prescott
have also voiced concerns about the way the party gets its message across.

The poll suggests confi-dence has particularly drained away from Mr Miliband
over the summer. When the same questions were asked in April, 28 per cent of
voters said he was doing a good job.

Martin Boon, the director of ICM, compared Mr Miliband's leadership to Iain
Duncan Smith's spell in charge of the Conservatives.

"Ed Miliband is not in a good place. Only a fifth of voters are satisfied with
his performance," he said. "It's diffi-cult to imagine that things could be any
worse for him, or indeed how he can succeed in turning the public around.

"He is becoming Labour's IDS and if it carries on like this it's hard not to
think that we'll be seeing Conservative polling leads very soon."

Mr Miliband is under pressure to set out his stance on an "in/out" referendum on
EU membership at his party's conference in Brighton next month.

Ian Austin, the shadow work and pensions minister, wants Labour to push for an
EU referendum before the next election or on the polling day in May 2015. David
Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum by 2017, after renegotiating the
relationship with Europe.

Some of Mr Miliband's advisers have urged him to use the Trades Union Congress
conference in Bournemouth, also next month, to announce the move. However, the
Conservatives are poised to leap on his union links, making such a move even
more risky.

This week, Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, will highlight the unions'
role in Labour when he attacks Mr Miliband's proposals to cap the amount of
money that a political party can accept from one individual donor.

The Tories say this would usher in taxpayer funding of political parties. Mr
Gove will also challenge reform of the way Labour selects its parliamentary
candidates.

Mr Miliband's personal ratings are significantly lower than the Prime
Minister's, but higher than those of Nick Clegg. Thirty-two per cent of voters
said that David Cameron was doing a good job, but just 17 per cent said the same
of the Lib Dem leader.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 25, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Miliband gets all-time low rating in poll

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 520 words


ED MILIBAND suffers a new blow today as a poll shows that the number of people
who think he is doing a "good job" as Labour leader is at an all-time low.

His embattled leadership was rated positively by 21 per cent of those surveyed
for The Sunday Telegraph, with 51 per cent labelling his track record "bad". In
September 2011, the "good" figure was 34 per cent. Although Continued on Page 6

Continued from Page 1 the poll, conducted by ICM, gave Labour a slight lead, it
was within the margin of error and experts warned that the Tories could retake
the lead imminently if Mr Miliband's performance did not improve.

The poll of 2,013 people online between August 21 and August 23 gave Labour 32
per cent of the vote, the Tories 30 and the Liberal Democrats 16. The UK
Independence Party was on 12 per cent.

A series of senior Labour figures have recently questioned Mr Miliband's
leadership style. Andy Burnham, the shadow health secretary, has urged Labour to
"shout louder", while Peter Hain, John Denham, David Blunkett and Lord Prescott
have also voiced concerns about the way the party gets its message across.

The poll suggests confi-dence has particularly drained away from Mr Miliband
over the summer. When the same questions were asked in April, 28 per cent of
voters said he was doing a good job.

Martin Boon, the director of ICM, compared Mr Miliband's leadership to Iain
Duncan Smith's spell in charge of the Conservatives.

"Ed Miliband is not in a good place. Only a fifth of voters are satisfied with
his performance," he said. "It's diffi-cult to imagine that things could be any
worse for him, or indeed how he can succeed in turning the public around.

"He is becoming Labour's IDS and if it carries on like this it's hard not to
think that we'll be seeing Conservative polling leads very soon."

Mr Miliband is under pressure to set out his stance on an "in/out" referendum on
EU membership at his party's conference in Brighton next month.

Ian Austin, the shadow work and pensions minister, wants Labour to push for an
EU referendum before the next election or on the polling day in May 2015. David
Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum by 2017, after renegotiating the
relationship with Europe.

Some of Mr Miliband's advisers have urged him to use the Trades Union Congress
conference in Bournemouth, also next month, to announce the move. However, the
Conservatives are poised to leap on his union links, making such a move even
more risky.

This week, Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, will highlight the unions'
role in Labour when he attacks Mr Miliband's proposals to cap the amount of
money that a political party can accept from one individual donor.

The Tories say this would usher in taxpayer funding of political parties. Mr
Gove will also challenge reform of the way Labour selects its parliamentary
candidates. Mr Miliband's personal ratings are significantly lower than the
Prime Minister's, but higher than those of Nick Clegg. Thirty-two per cent of
voters said that David Cameron was doing a good job, but just 17 per cent said
the same of the Lib Dem leader.

Continued from Page 1 the [...]

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 18, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Immigration has redrawn the old party political lines;
The debate is at the heart of our membership of theEU, and it's notable now how
many advocates of immigration are on the Right, while the Left apologises for
past mistakes

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1191 words


In their many private conversations - formal "bilaterals" and informal,
unminuted chats - David Cameron and Nick Clegg often disagree radically over the
Prime Minister's plan to renegotiate Britain's membership of the European Union.
As Clegg sees it, the rattling of Cameron's diplomatic begging-bowl round the
capitals of Europe will yield only small change, and certainly not a grand
repatriation of powers from Brussels. As far as the Deputy PM is concerned, his
Tory partner is stitching himself up.

To which Cameron was able to reply last week: it ain't necessarily so. On
Tuesday, Angela Merkel said that an initiative to "give something back" to EU
member states would begin after next month's elections in Germany.
Simultaneously, it was reported that the UK government is pressing for greater
national control over the rights of EU migrants to British benefits. Iain Duncan
Smith has been busily preparing the groundwork for a common Anglo-German
approach to this and other issues involving welfare policy in the EU. It would
be wrong to exaggerate the significance of this co-operation, but it is
certainly the germ of something very much to Cameron's advantage: a process of
renegotiation that amounts to more than Britain versus the rest.

It also underscores the importance of personal chemistry in any political
relationship or negotiation: Merkel is now Cameron's closest ally on the world
stage. Of course, his position as First Friend to President Obama is essential
to his global status, a role that British prime ministers seek as part of their
job description (remember poor Gordon Brown chasing the President round the UN
in 2009 for a 15-minute conversation in the kitchen?). Cameron likes the Zenlike
calm of "No Drama Obama". But he is privately frustrated by the time the
President tends to take before committing himself to anything, and his
disinclination to immerse himself in the geostrategic problems of Syria, the
rest of the Middle East and (until the 11th hour) Libya. In Merkel, Cameron has
discovered a more decisive ally, and a mentor whom he has learnt to trust
deeply. The German Chancellor is also a favourite of the PM's family, who
welcome her as an elegant aunt with a twinkle in her eye. If Merkel is defeated
in the German elections on September 22, Cameron will feel the loss more keenly
than if Obama had been defeated by Mitt Romney last November. She is absolutely
essential to his plans to renegotiate Britain's membership of the EU, and to win
the In/Out referendum that he has promised before the end of 2017 - a very risky
strategy that he hopes will be at the heart of his legacy.

Of the many issues that membership of the EU raises, two predominate. First, in
the words of one Cabinet minister, "We need to get back the right to work as
hard as we want to". Our theoretical optout from the Working Time Directive has
never been sufficient protection from attacks upon our labour-market
flexibility. Second, there is the question of the nation's borders and the
degree of control Westminster and Whitehall truly exercise over the movement of
EU citizens into Britain and their entitlements when they are here.

One of Cameron's early achievements was to "detoxify" the issue of immigration;
to acknowledge its importance, but to discuss it in a calm and measured fashion
as an administrative challenge rather than a battle to save Britain from a
monstrous threat. Indeed, the PM is enough of an economic liberal to believe
that a measure of immigration is essential to prosperity; he is also at ease
with contemporary society and with multi-ethnic Britain. This is why the
juvenile "Go home" vans are a step backward, restoring the red mist of anger to
the debate in a single demeaning stunt.

As it happens, the partisan dividing lines on this issue are far from
predictable. Many of the most fervent advocates of immigration are on the
centre-Right, market liberals who believe that labour mobility is essential to
prosperity and to individual aspiration - the cross-border equivalent of Norman
Tebbit's "get on your bike". The most recent Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development report found that migration is still making a
positive impact upon Britain's public finances. According to the Department for
Work and Pensions, 17 per cent of workingage UK nationals claim a benefit,
compared with only 7 per cent of non-UK nationals. The British economy is
heavily dependent upon the service industries, which rely in turn upon motivated
migrant labour.

I incline to this view myself: a nation can opt out of a globalised economy, and
stand on the sidelines. What it cannot do is erect protectionist barriers and
still expect to succeed.

Meanwhile, many on the Left are flirting with a protectionist nationalism that
has less to do with patriotism than with driving up wages (paid for how?). Chris
Bryant's speech last week, first reported in The Sunday Telegraph, became a
political farce, a story about fact-checking and woolly thinking. But Bryant's
speech was meant to be an important punctuation mark for his party, as it slowly
ditches its previous position on migrant labour. Brown toyed with this in his
"British jobs for British workers" slogan in 2009. Ed Miliband has frequently
apologised for not taking more notice of the fact that (as he put it in January)
"high levels of migration were having huge effects on the lives of people in
Britain". One of the things Bryant was trying to say last week, lost in the
political slapstick, was that Labour should have maintained tougher transitional
controls when the so-called "A8" countries joined the EU (the Czech Republic,
Hungary and others) in 2004.

The most articulate expression of this rethink on the centre-Left is to be found
in David Goodhart's recently published book, The British Dream - a fascinating
exploration of immigration and integration that everyone with an interest in
politics and society should read, even if (like me) they have different views.

I suspect that the problem of EU benefit tourism - real as it may be - is
eclipsed by the disincentives in the welfare system for Britons to take
lowpaying work. In many cases, those who decline to take jobs that pay less than
they make on the dole are behaving rationally, if not ethically. This is why it
is so important that the household welfare cap and Duncan Smith's Universal
Credit are a success, not least in their objective to make work pay. In the
meantime, there will be a steady supply of EU migrants willing to snap up the
jobs that indigenous citizens turn down.

The argument over immigration and its merits will continue: it is intrinsic to
the much greater debate about the true location of power in a globalised world
and the extent to which a nation-state can determine its destiny.

What is certain is that the British want greater control over their borders - a
sense that they, through their elected representatives, decide the extent of
migration to this country, rather than a distant authority in Brussels. Never
forget that Cameron is trying to keep us in the EU. To have a prayer of doing
so, he needs to win this, and many other battles.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 11, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron urged to 'remain in EU project'

BYLINE: KAMAL AHMED

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 529 words


ONE of David Cameron's key business supporters has said that Britain should
remain in a reformed European Union or put at risk one of the country's most
important relationships.

Sir Paul Ruddock, who cofounded the respected hedge fund, Lansdowne Partners,
said that although Brussels had extended its remit in a way that was
"inappropriate", it would be "a disaster" if Britain left the free-trade area.

"On our relationship with Europe, it is very important to me that we stay within
a free common market," Sir Paul said.

"[But] it is not clear that the mandate that Brussels has taken to regulate so
many parts of our industry [is] appropriate. I think that when we signed up in
1973 to be a member of the EU, we didn't sign up to having quite so much of our
behaviour governed by Brussels rather than governed by Westminster.

"I can understand the desire to take back some of those powers. I understand
that may leave us with less influence in Europe. But I also understand that the
EU has become much more complicated as it has expanded. But I am absolutely in
favour of staying part of an EU trade zone. It would be a disaster if we were to
pull out of that."

Sir Paul, who is a Conservative Party donor, said the critical test would be how
much reform the Prime Minister could agree with other EU countries.

"The question is how you do that," he said.

Mr Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum of the UK's membership of the EU if
the Conservatives win the next general election.

Businesses are split on the issue, with some arguing that staying in the union
is vitals, and others saying that leaving would create new opportunities.

Writing in The Sunday Telegraph last month, Helena Morrissey, the chief
executive of Newton Investment Management, said that it was time for Britain to
leave the EU.

A poll by the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment suggested last
week that the City was split, with 56pc backing staying in the EU and 44pc
favouring withdrawal. Some 16pc said that they supported more integration and
joining the euro.

Sir Paul, who recently left Lansdowne as chief executive and is chairman of the
Victoria and Albert Museum, said that although the eurozone was economically out
of immediate danger, the euro was still overvalued, meaning southern economies
find it harder to grow.

"I think the euro at current levels has been a major obstacle to recovery of a
lot of the southern European countries," he said.

"They need to get their export businesses fired up as the growth is not going to
come internally. I do worry in the medium term about a two-speed Europe,
northern Europe and southern Europe."

Sir Paul said he expected a "great rotation" from bonds into equities as
valuations were competitive.

"The idea that getting 1pc on cash and 2pc to 3pc on bonds is a good return is
crazy," he said.

"[Bonds] have been a safe haven where people have parked money through a crisis.
So I think a rotation out of bonds will happen at some stage.

"Many institutions who were 60pc equities are now 30pc equities and if pension
funds and insurance companies are going to meet their liabilities, they have to
take a different view."

Sir Paul Ruddock interview: B9

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 11, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Sometimes hedge funds can be the canaries in the cool mine. They are
significant UK job creators;
The co-founder of one of Europe's most successful investment funds says the
sector is a vital part of the City's success. By Kamal Ahmed

BYLINE: Kamal Ahmed

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1711 words


Sir Paul Ruddock learnt an early lesson when he was applying for his first job
in the City. Don't try to bluff your way in fine art.

Sir Paul, then just plain Paul, was in New York for the last of an exhaustive
series of interviews with Goldman Sachs, at the time a relatively small
investment bank with a minor interest in the UK totalling just 50 employees. It
was the 1980s.

As is often the case, the interview started in a relaxed manner and Sir Paul
spoke about his first visit to the New York Museum of Modern Art (Moma). He even
ventured that he particularly liked the Russian constructivist painter,
Alexander Rodchenko. Luckily Sir Paul, an avid art fan, wasn't simply trying to
impress the interviewer - a Goldman executive who Sir Paul later discovered was
a trustee of Moma.

"I learnt a lesson from that," Sir Paul says, before laughing. "You'd better not
fib in an interview."

Sir Paul's interview was successful, and he joined Goldman Sachs in its
international equities division. It was the start of a career that would see him
rise to a senior position in Schroders before launching the hedge fund,
Lansdowne Partners, with Steve Heinz in 1998. This would go on to become one of
the most successful equity investment funds of the past 15 years. In last year's
Europe50 ranking of top hedge funds, Lansdowne was ranked eighth, with $14.1bn
(£9bn) assets under management. It started with $50m.

Earlier this year, Sir Paul announced that he would be moving on as chief
executive and focusing for a period on other parts of his life, including the
chairmanship of the Victoria and Albert Museum and as ambassador for the
charity, AfriKids.

He might also like a little time out of the limelight. Sir Paul hit the
headlines 20 months ago when his knighthood caused controversy as he is also a
financial supporter of the Conservative Party. What his critics missed, possibly
deliberately, is that Sir Paul has a broad philanthropic hinterland. As well as
his work and fundraising for the V&A, he funded the renovation of the British
Museum's medieval galleries and also supports his old school, King Edward's in
Birmingham, where the Performing Arts Centre is named in his honour.

"Clearly, I've been a Tory supporter," Sir Paul says of the public furore. "My
charitable and financial contributions are tens and tens of times as much money
[as my political donations]. That's what I really care about.

"I think more transparency [about why the award] was given would have
ameliorated the criticism. [The knighthood] was clearly to do with my work at
the V&A and elsewhere.

"The honours committee needs to keep reasserting that it is independent of
political influence. That is the key."

When Sir Paul launched Lansdowne, hedge funds were still relatively uncommon in
Europe.

"Private wealth management was not being particularly well done in Europe," he
says. "Secondly, there was a complete dearth of funds that focused on absolute
returns.

"Hedge funds were a logical form of asset management for institutions and
wealthy families. In the US it was a £0.5trillion industry. In Europe it was
tiny. I couldn't figure that out.

"The European equities market was not well analysed. Beyond the UK, most
European markets were not well analysed."

But as the sector grew, so did the controversies.

"Short selling" - the selling of borrowed stock in the expectation that it can
be bought later at a lower price, crystallising a profit - became an easy
political target for supposedly hastening the demise of listed companies. When
Northern Rock collapsed, Lansdowne, which had been short on the stock for two
years, found itself facing accusations in the court of public opinion.

Sir Paul, quietly spoken but emphatic, argues that far from increasing market
volatility, short-selling is a balancing factor to rampant over-valuation - a
trend that can be just as valuedestructive to portfolios as a business going
bust.

"Sometimes hedge funds can be canaries in the coal mine," Sir Paul says. "Hedge
funds had been short Enron. Hedge funds were short internet stocks very early
on. It was frustrating [being criticised], because the reasons those financial
institutions went wrong had nothing to do with hedge funds. It had to do with
the management of those institutions mismanaging those institutions. Most of the
positions were taken well before the stock started getting into problems."

Many attacked funds, describing them as faceless money pots stalking the markets
looking for targets to take down.

"That is patently not true," he says. "Following the ban on the short-selling of
financials [during the financial crisis], the stocks went down even more
violently. In no way did they [the funds] contribute."

Critics also conveniently forget that the sector creates jobs as well as
providing essential liquidity to the markets.

"In the mid-1990s there was $12bn of assets managed in the European hedge fund
industry," Sir Paul says. "Today it is about $500bn and 85pc of that is managed
in London. So it has been a significant job creator and tax generator for this
country."

Lansdowne is a longbiased fund, meaning that it is actually focused on longterm
investments rather than on targeting overvalued stocks. It has been an investor
in Lloyds Banking Group for many years, sticking with the bank through the
turbulence of 2011, when the then new chief executive, Antonio Horta-Osorio,
revealed a £3.2bn provision on payment protection insurance mis-selling, a
charge on underperforming Ireland assets of £1.1bn and that net interest margins
had declined. The share price fell but Lansdowne stuck with the investment,
which has seen a major upturn during 2013.

Sir Paul says that he first became concerned about the state of the UK banking
sector in 2005. Indeed, some might argue that if only hedge funds were listened
to rather than attacked, the calamitous events of 2007 and 2008 might have been
ameliorated.

"That [2005] was when banks really start to ramp up their balance sheets," Sir
Paul says.

"Because money became so cheap, banks became much more opportunistic about
leverage. A combination of lax regulation - not just in the UK, but across
Europe and in the US - plus politicians' acquiescence in house prices going up,
meant that we got into a situation that with hindsight it's incredible that
anyone allowed. We did identify the weaker players in that, like Bradford &
Bingley, Northern Rock and HBOS."

With ultra-loose monetary policy now the order of the day, does Sir Paul agree
that there will be a "great rotation" from bonds into equities as institutional
investors hunt for yield in a zero interest-rate world? Mark Carney, the
Governor of the Bank of England, signalled last week that such was the
underlying weakness of the UK economy, interest rates would stay at 0.5pc for up
to three years.

"Whenever you go through a period of massive deleveraging, recovery is very,
very slow," Sir Paul says.

"And that is why it is so important that interest rates stay low. Between 1997
and 2010, UK government expenditure as a percentage of GDP went from 36pc to
51pc. That is fine when you are firing on all cylinders and tax revenues are
pouring in. The moment you hit a speed bump, you have a problem." Since Sir Paul
has spent 15 years running an equities fund, it is little wonder he sees the
advantages of investing in value stocks, but he also sees some dangers.

"It strikes me on any long- term view, the idea that getting 1pc on cash and 2pc
to 3pc on bonds is a good return is crazy unless you believe in deflation," Sir
Paul says.

"[The bond market] has been a safe haven where people have parked money through
a crisis. So I think a rotation out of bonds will happen at some stage. Many
institutions who were 60pc equities are now 30pc equities and if pension funds
and insurance companies are going to meet their liabilities, they have to take a
different view. If you go up the bond curve into junk, for example [in the chase
for yield], it is highly risky."

He mentions, with a pause for effect, that the Rwandan government is offering
bonds at 7pc return.

"So, you come back to equities. Institutions are very underweight equities by
historic standards. Valuations aren't cheap but they're not expensive. They are
certainly cheap against bonds.

"I would argue that on a medium-term view, equities are the most attractive
asset class."

Sir Paul, who is still a donor to the Conservative Party, turns finally to
Europe and Britain's fractious relationship with the continent. If the
Conservatives win the next general election, David Cameron has pledged to hold a
referendum on whether Britain should stay in what he hopes is a reformed common
market.

"On our relationship with Europe, it is very important to me that we stay within
a free common market," Sir Paul says.

"[But] it is not clear that the mandate that Brussels has taken to regulate so
many parts of our industry [is] appropriate. I think that when we signed up in
1973 to be a member of the EU, we didn't sign up to having quite so much of our
behaviour governed by Brussels rather than governed by Westminster.

"I can understand the desire to take back some of those powers. I understand
that may leave us with less influence in Europe. But I also understand that the
EU has become much more complicated as it has expanded. But I am absolutely in
favour of staying part of an EU trade zone. It would be a disaster if we were to
pull out of that."

The question will be how much reform can Cameron extract from the other members
of the EU.

Sir Paul replies with one word: "Absolutely."

FACTS

1998 The Year Sir Paul launched Lansdowne Partners with partner Steven Heinz

$50m Assets under management at launch

$14.1bn Assets under management in 2012

$12bn Hedge fund managed assets in Europe in the mid-1990s

$500bn Hedge fund managed assets today

(EURO)1.40 What Sir Paul thinks the euro's value should be against sterling

(EURO)1.17 Current value against sterling

SIR PAUL RUDDOCK CV

Married to Jill Shaw Ruddock, author of The Second Half of Your Life

Education King Edward's School, Birmingham, Oxford University

Career 1980-84 Goldman Sachs, international equities; 1984-98 Schroders, rising
to head of international department; 1998-2013 Founder and CEO of Lansdowne
Partners; 2007-present Chairman of the V&A

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GETTY IMAGES FOR VICTORIA AND ALBERT MUSEUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 11, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Could a select committee be the answer to leaving the EU?;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 612 words


SIR - Even if François Hollande had pledged his full support to helping David
Cameron renegotiate Britain's relationship with Europe, there would still be the
small matter of securing agreement from the remaining 26 EU states. This would
be virtually impossible and would take years.

There is, however, a relatively simple way for Mr Cameron to secure the changes
he desires. He could create a select committee on the review of EU legislation,
which could make recommendations to Parliament as to which EU legislation is
contrary to the interests of Britain. Pursuant to any such recommendation,
Parliament could adopt an Act amending and/or repealing the EU legislation in
question. The principle of parliamentary sovereignty would ensure that any such
Acts would be immune from challenges before the British courts.

Naturally, this would result in a host of decisions from the EU's Court of
Justice against Britain in respect of such legislation, but what, in practice,
could the EU authorities do about this? They have no powers of enforcement
against recalcitrant members, and no powers of expulsion. Walter Cairns
Manchester

SIR - Given that François Hollande has said "non" to David Cameron, Mr Cameron
should now say "au revoir" to the European Union.

There is no point in even starting to renegotiate the terms of our relationship
with other members. The politicians who Mr Cameron will be fighting against
either benefit massively from our contribution at the expense of the British
people and government, or are so blindly fixated on the European "project" that
they will not budge on the most important powers that we want to repatriate.
James Adam Paton Billericay, Essex

SIR - Peter Marshall (Letters, August 4) believes that we should continue to
deploy the outward-looking entrepreneurial spirit that has long defined us in
the quest for a reformed EU.

We have been in the EU for 40 years and in all that time we have been trying to
reform it from within with a singular lack of success. Tony Blair gave up our
rebate for reform of the Common Agricultural Policy, yet it remains unreformed.
The definition of madness is doing the same thing and expecting to achieve
different results. We are one voice against 27 at the current count. As more net
beneficiary nations - sorry, member states - join, the odds will only worsen. It
is time for a radical solution; cite Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty and force
the EU to negotiate with us as is laid down therein.

A C Allen Sedgeford, Norfolk

SIR - The pros and cons of leaving the EU will be discussed endlessly until the
referendum.

There is only one certainty. If we don't leave, Britain will be finished as the
sovereign state which, by its fortitude in 1940-41, allowed the rest of Europe
ultimately to recover. I have never heard a modern Eurocrat give us credit for
that fact.

Dr Ross Watkin Chipstead, Surrey

SIR - David Cameron's promise of a referendum in 2017 is a bribe to win back
Tory defectors from Ukip, and he will use every trick in the book to avoid
taking Britain out of this deeply flawed union.

Roger Hopkins Eastbourne, East Sussex

SIR - Raj Ganguly (Letters, August 4) is scaremongering when he suggests that
foreign businesses will shun Britain if we leave the EU. In fact they will have
an additional incentive to invest here. In Britain they will be free of the
petty and antibusiness regulations that will remain in force in the residual EU.
Trade will go on as before.

They will still be able to sell their British-made products in EU countries. The
idea that a metaphorical Berlin Wall would be erected to separate us from our
continental neighbours is preposterous.

Frank Tomlin Billericay, Essex

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 August 4, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hollande says 'non' to helping PM reform EU

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY; HARRIET ALEXANDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 853 words


DAVID CAMERON has been told by the French president that his country will not go
out of its way to help Britain win key "reforms" of the European Union ahead of
a referendum on UK membership.

François Hollande warned the Prime Minister privately that France would not
agree to concessions being made by the rest of the EU just to suit his domestic
"agenda", The Sunday Telegraph has learnt.

Mr Hollande's tough stance, spelt out in the "margins" of official meetings in
Paris, Brussels, Northern Ireland and elsewhere, is an opening play in a
high-stakes game of diplomatic poker.

Nevertheless, it represents a big obstacle for Mr Cameron to overcome as he
plots his EU strategy for the next few years. After pressure from Conservative
Eurosceptics, Mr Cameron pledged an "in/out" referendum by the end of 2017,
following a drive to reform the EU that would see the terms of membership
renegotiated and powers returned to the UK from Brussels.

The Prime Minister is understood to be counting on the help of Angela Merkel,
the German Chancellor, to push reforms through, but opposition from France, one
of the EU's power players, will make the process considerably harder, if not
impossible.

According to senior French sources, Mr Hollande has also privately warned Mr
Cameron that he is taking a major "risk" in promising an "in/out" referendum
because this could easily backfire and result in Britain voting to leave the
union, an outcome which would almost certainly force his resignation.

In public, Mr Hollande has suggested the two countries have disagreements on the
future of the EU but has stressed the need to find "common ground".

His private interventions will be of much greater concern to senior figures at
Number 10 and represent the first major signal from an EU head of government
that Mr Cameron's strategy will face serious challenges.

The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that Mr Hollande, a socialist, who was elected
president last year, drew comparisons of Mr Cameron's move with the effort by
Jacques Chirac to use a referendum to win approval in France for the proposed EU
constitution in 2005.

Mr Chirac, a Gaullist, thought he would win the vote after initial opinion polls
showed the French public was two-to-one in favour. There was no constitutional
necessity to hold a referendum, which could have been rati-fied in France with a
parliamentary vote.

In the end, however, voters both in France and Denmark voted "no" in referendums
, causing the constitution to be abandoned. Most of its proposed measures were
implemented through the Lisbon Treaty in 2009.

A highly placed French source said: "Referendums are major gambles which can
backfire, as they did with Chirac and the constitution. Hollande has warned
Cameron in private about the risks he is taking here.

"We do not want the UK to leave the EU. We understand the reasons why you are
not in the eurozone or part of Schengen [the agreement allowing most EU citizens
to cross borders without passport checks], but the UK actually outside the EU is
unthinkable.

"We know why Cameron is promising to campaign for change - he has to because of
his problems with his own party and his domestic agenda. But François Hollande
has made it clear to him that France will not agree to anything that does not
suit France's interests."

Mr Hollande, like other EU leaders, fears that if Mr Cameron is not able to
offer the British public credible evidence that he has secured reforms and the
repatriation of significant powers, voters will opt to leave the EU.

The French president's warnings can, however, be interpreted merely as the
opening hands of the poker game, involving countries both inside and outside the
EU, which will last up until a referendum.

Last month Japan said Britain must stay in the union and single market,
suggesting tens of thousands of jobs would be lost if companies investing in the
UK and exporting the to the EU had to pay tariffs.

Tokyo delivered its warning in a submission to the Foreign Office's current
review of the "balance of competences" between Britain and the EU, sections of
which have already been published.

Mr Cameron's strategy has helped win around the broad base of Tory
Euro-sceptics, a grouping which has staged a series of Commons rebellions over
Europe since the formation of the coalition in 2010.

Conservative MPs have also been encouraged by Tory ministers throwing their
weight behind a bill introduced by James Wharton, a backbencher, to enshrine the
referendum pledge in law.

However, the issue is causing renewed strains for the coalition, with Nick Clegg
accusing Mr Cameron of a "retreat" over Europe which is damaging Britain's
"bulldog" spirit.

The Deputy Prime Minister said last week: "You don't reform in my view by
stamping your foot and saying 'unless we get something back we're going to leave
altogether'."

Figures show Britain's net contribution to the EU went up by nearly 13 per cent
last year. The gap between what the country paid to Brussels and what it
received went up to £12.23billion in 2012, the lowest "return" for the UK in 10
years.

'France will not back anything that doesn't suit France'

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The French president, right, has spoken to Mr Cameron privately

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 August 4, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We could soon be paying billions for this back-up

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 594 words


Occasionally, one comes across a story so mind-blowingly unexpected and
out-of-left-field that it seems hard for readers to take on board that it is
true. Such is the story I first reported here last month, under the heading,
"Our lights will stay on, but it'll cost us a fortune", about the scheme being
devised by the National Grid to solve what has long been the most intractable
problem created by the Government's plan to see the best part of £110billion
spent in seven years on building tens of thousands more wind turbines - namely,
how to keep our national grid "balanced" when it has to cope with all those
unpredictably wild fluctuations in the speed of the wind.

The answer National Grid has come up with, only made possible by the latest
computer technology and "cloud software", is to hook up thousands of diesel
generators, remotely controlled by the grid, to provide almost instantly
available back-up for when the wind drops. As we can see from recent reports,
such as the National Grid's draft consultation on "Demand Side Balancing Reserve
and Supplemental Balancing Reserve", this is now taking off into the weirdest
and most ambitious scheme yet called into being by our politicians' obsession
with wind turbines. As uncovered by the tireless research of my colleague,
Richard North, on his EU Referendum blog, owners of diesel generators are being
incentivised with offers of astronomic fees to make them available to the grid -
subsidies equivalent to up to 12 times the going rate for conventional
electricity, and even, on very rare occasions, up to £15,000 per megawatt hour
(MWh), or 300 times the normal rate of £50 per MWh.

Initially, this "short-term operating reserve" only envisaged relying on
existing standby generators, many owned by public bodies such as hospitals,
prisons and military installations - which stand to earn hundreds of millions of
pounds from the Government, paid for by the rest of us as a "stealth tax"
through our electricity bills. But so lucrative is the subsidy bonanza now being
proposed that dozens of private firms, with names such as Renewable Energy
Generation and Power Balancing Services, are flocking to cash in by building
dedicated "virtual power stations", capable of generating up to 20MW or more,
knowing that they can expect up to £47,000 a year in "availability payments" for
each MW of capacity, even before they have generated a single unit of power.

This solution to the "grid balancing" problem created by wind was pioneered in
the US. The first firm to set up a "virtual power station" in Britain was UK
Power Reserve, run by a former governor of Oklahoma, who was amazed to find the
British offering subsidies seven times larger than those available in his native
state. When last week I asked National Grid, Ofgem and others for an estimate of
how much we will all be having to pay for this "balancing" scheme, the general
response was that this is still too much a "work in progress" to allow for
overall cost estimates - although National Grid has been quoted as suggesting
that within two years it could be £1billion a year, adding 5 per cent more to
our already soaring electricity bills. But, without question, we are looking
here at one of the most sure-fire moneymaking wheezes of our time - what one
firm happily describes as "money for nothing".

And the final irony, of course, is that those diesel generators chuck out almost
as much, per unit, of that supposedly polluting CO2 as any of the coal-fired
power stations our politicians want to see taxed and regulated out of existence.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: When the wind doesn't blow, thousands of generators will have to do the
job
ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 August 4, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Hollande says 'non' to helping PM reform EU

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY ; HARRIET ALEXANDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 843 words


DAVID CAMERON has been told by the French president that his country will not go
out of its way to help Britain win key "reforms" of the European Union ahead of
a referendum on UK membership.

François Hollande warned the Prime Minister privately that France would not
agree to concessions being made by the rest of the EU just to suit his domestic
"agenda", The Sunday Telegraph has learnt.

Mr Hollande's tough stance, spelt out in the "margins" of official meetings in
Paris, Brussels, Northern Ireland and elsewhere, is an opening play in a
high-stakes game of diplomatic poker.

Nevertheless, it represents a big obstacle for Mr Cameron to overcome as he
plots his EU strategy for the next few years. After pressure from Conservative
Eurosceptics, Mr Cameron pledged an "in/out" referendum by the end of 2017,
following a drive to reform the EU that would see the terms of membership
renegotiated and powers returned to the UK from Brussels.

The Prime Minister is understood to be counting on the help of Angela Merkel,
the German Chancellor, to push reforms through, but opposition from France, one
of the EU's power players, will make the process considerably harder, if not
impossible.

According to senior French sources, Mr Hollande has also privately warned Mr
Cameron that he is taking a major "risk" in promising an "in/out" referendum
because this could easily backfire and result in Britain voting to leave the
union, an outcome which would almost certainly force his resignation.

In public, Mr Hollande has suggested that the two countries have disagreements
on the future of the EU but has stressed the need to find "common ground".

His private interventions will be of much greater concern to senior figures at
No 10 and represent the first major signal from an EU head of government that Mr
Cameron's strategy will face serious challenges.

The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that Mr Hollande, a socialist, who was elected
president last year, drew comparisons of Mr Cameron's move with the effort by
Jacques Chirac to use a referendum to win approval in France for the proposed EU
constitution in 2005.

Mr Chirac, a Gaullist, thought he would win the vote after initial opinion polls
showed the French public was two-to-one in favour. There was no constitutional
necessity to hold a referendum, which could have been rati-fied in France with a
parliamentary vote.

In the end, however, voters both in France and Denmark voted "no" in referendums
, causing the constitution to be abandoned. Most of its proposed measures were
implemented through the Lisbon Treaty in 2009.

A highly placed French source said: "Referendums are major gambles which can
backfire, as they did with Chirac and the constitution. Hollande has warned
Cameron in private about the risks he is taking here.

"We do not want the UK to leave the EU. We understand the reasons why you are
not in the eurozone or part of Schengen [the agreement allowing most EU citizens
to cross borders without passport checks], but the UK actually outside the EU is
unthinkable.

"We know why Cameron is promising to campaign for change - he has to because of
his problems with his own party and his domestic agenda. But François Hollande
has made it clear to him that France will not agree to anything that does not
suit France's interests."

Mr Hollande, like other EU leaders, fears that if Mr Cameron is not able to
offer the British public credible evidence that he has secured reforms and the
repatriation of significant powers, voters will opt to leave the EU.

The French president's warnings can, however, be interpreted merely as the
opening hands of the poker game, involving countries both inside and outside the
EU, which will last up until a referendum.

Last month Japan said Britain must stay in the union and single market,
suggesting tens of thousands of jobs would be lost if companies investing in the
UK and exporting to the EU had to pay tariffs.

Tokyo delivered its warning in a submission to the Foreign Office's current
review of the "balance of competences" between Britain and the EU, sections of
which have already been published.

Mr Cameron's strategy has helped win around the broad base of Tory Eurosceptics,
a grouping which has staged a series of Commons rebellions over Europe since the
formation of the coalition in 2010. Conservative MPs have also been encouraged
by Tory ministers throwing their weight behind a Bill introduced by James
Wharton, a backbencher, to enshrine the referendum pledge in law.

However, the issue is causing renewed strains for the coalition, with Nick Clegg
accusing Mr Cameron of a "retreat" over Europe that is damaging Britain's
"bulldog" spirit.

The Deputy Prime Minister said last week: "You don't reform in my view by
stamping your foot and saying 'unless we get something back we're going to leave
altogether'."

Figures show Britain's net contribution to the EU went up by nearly 13 per cent
last year. The gap between what the country paid to Brussels and what it
received went up to £12.23billion in 2012, the lowest "return" for the UK in 10
years.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The French president, right, has spoken to Mr Cameron privately

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 28, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IT'S TIME TO LEAVE THE EU;
TOP FUND MANAGER HELENA MORRISSEY SAYS BRITAIN COULD EASILY GO IT ALONE B4

BYLINE: JAMES HURLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 633 words


LEADING City fund manager Helena Morrissey has called for the UK to leave the
European Union, calling the single market a "flawed model of the past".

The chief executive of Newton Investment Management said businesses had nothing
to fear from an EU exit, predicting that the economy would thrive outside the
28-member club. "I am confident we have much more to gain from the
outward-looking, entrepreneurial spirit that has long defined us, than if we
stay bickering, fighting and losing within a passé political structure that is
wholly unnatural to us," she said, writing for The Sunday Telegraph.

Ms Morrissey said the EU had "too fundamental a flaw" at its heart for
renegotiation of the UK's role within it - Prime Minister David Cameron's
preferred approach - to work.

She went on to say that "eurozone politicians are determined to defend the
monetary union whatever the social cost in Greece, Portugal and Spain" and that
"the authorities' desire to be proven right may well outweigh their motivation
to do the right thing".

An "obvious lack of flexibility and accountability within the eurozone" has left
"a whole generation of young people paying a very painful price for this
imperial, large-scale, flawed political agenda", she added.

She is the latest senior business leader to enter the debate on Europe, ahead of
a possible referendum in 2017.

Sir Mike Rake, the new president of the CBI, has argued that continued
membership of the EU is "overwhelmingly" in the UK's economic interests.

However, business leaders including Sir Richard Branson have warned of the
dangers of putting "politics before economics". Sir Richard was one of 19
leading entrepreneurs and executives who signed an open letter to Eurosceptic
MPs, which claimed that EU membership is worth up to £92bn a year to Britain.

They added that closer EU integration on trade to include digital, energy,
transport and telecoms could more than double the economic benefits of EU
membership and boost UK GDP by a further £110bn.

But there is increasing political support for an "out" vote in Mr Cameron's
proposed 2017 referendum.

Lord Lawson, the former Conservative chancellor, recently called for Britain to
leave the single market - claiming that economic gains "would substantially
outweigh the costs" - and free businesses from red tape. He also predicted that
the Prime Minster's attempts to renegotiate relations from within the EU would
be "inconsequential".

Lord Lawson is one of the judges of an Institute of Economic Affairs prize,
which is offering (EURO)100,000 (£86,300) for the best account of why the UK
would be better off outside the EU.

Ms Morrissey, who insisted she is "not a backwardlooking little Englander", said
several experiences have left her "disillusioned about the EU's approach to
effecting change".

She said that the EU's process for developing financial regulations is
"debilitating" and wastes "valuable effort that could be put to more productive
uses", adding that she believed that her "perspective may resonate even with
those who take a different view".

She also cited an EU attempt to introduce legislation to improve the proportion
of women on corporate boards across Europe as an example of its poor decision
making.

The founder of the 30% Club, which campaigns for a better gender balance on
boards, said she found "the whole process both disappointing and disturbing,
especially around the lack of evidence or understanding to back up views".

Ms Morrissey, whose firm has almost £55bn under management, said she was "not
afraid that all will be lost" if Britain leaves the single market.

"I am convinced that the tide of influence is moving away from the top down,
command and control, onesize-fits-all approach to business and politics."

£92bn The reported annual value of EU membership to Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 28, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

IT'S TIME TO LEAVE THE EU;
TOP FUND MANAGER HELENA MORRISSEY SAYS BRITAIN COULD EASILY GO IT ALONE B4

BYLINE: JAMES HURLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 632 words


LEADING City fund manager Helena Morrissey has called for the UK to leave the
European Union, calling the single market a "flawed model of the past".

The chief executive of Newton Investment Management said businesses had nothing
to fear from an EU exit, predicting that the economy would thrive outside the
28-member club. "I am confident we have much more to gain from the
outward-looking, entrepreneurial spirit that has long defined us, than if we
stay bickering, fighting and losing within a passé political structure that is
wholly unnatural to us," she said, writing for The Sunday Telegraph.

Ms Morrissey said the EU had "too fundamental a flaw" at its heart for
renegotiation of the UK's role within it - Prime Minister David Cameron's
preferred approach - to work.

She went on to say that "eurozone politicians are determined to defend the
monetary union whatever the social cost in Greece, Portugal and Spain" and that
"the authorities' desire to be proven right may well outweigh their motivation
to do the right thing".

An "obvious lack of flexibility and accountability within the eurozone" has left
"a whole generation of young people paying a very painful price for this
imperial, large-scale, flawed political agenda", she added.

She is the latest senior business leader to enter the debate on Europe, ahead of
a possible referendum in 2017.

Sir Mike Rake, the new president of the CBI, has argued that continued
membership of the EU is "overwhelmingly" in the UK's economic interests.

However, business leaders including Sir Richard Branson have warned of the
dangers of putting "politics before economics". Sir Richard was one of 19
leading entrepreneurs and executives who signed an open letter to Eurosceptic
MPs, which claimed that EU membership is worth up to £92bn a year to Britain.

They added that closer EU integration on trade to include digital, energy,
transport and telecoms could more than double the economic benefits of EU
membership and boost UK GDP by a further £110bn.

But there is increasing political support for an "out" vote in Mr Cameron's
proposed 2017 referendum.

Lord Lawson, the former Conservative chancellor, recently called for Britain to
leave the single market - claiming that economic gains "would substantially
outweigh the costs" - and free businesses from red tape. He also predicted that
the Prime Minster's attempts to renegotiate relations from within the EU would
be "inconsequential".

Lord Lawson is one of the judges of an Institute of Economic Affairs prize,
which is offering (EURO)100,000 (£86,300) for the best account of why the UK
would be better off outside the EU.

Ms Morrissey, who insisted she is "not a backwardlooking little Englander", said
several experiences have left her "disillusioned about the EU's approach to
effecting change".

She said that the EU's process for developing financial regulations is
"debilitating" and wastes "valuable effort that could be put to more productive
uses", adding that she believed that her "perspective may resonate even with
those who take a different view".

She also cited an EU attempt to introduce legislation to improve the proportion
of women on corporate boards across Europe as an example of its poor decision
making.

The founder of the 30% Club, which campaigns for a better gender balance on
boards, said she found "the whole process both disappointing and disturbing,
especially around the lack of evidence or understanding to back up views".

Ms Morrissey, whose firm has almost £55bn under management, said she was "not
afraid that all will be lost" if Britain leaves the single market.

"I am convinced that the tide of influence is moving away from the top down,
command and control, onesize-fits-all approach to business and politics."

The reported annual value of EU membership to Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 28, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

David Cameron will dress up EU deal;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 267 words


SIR - If I understand it correctly, David Cameron's intention is to attempt to
renegotiate as good a deal for this country as possible in Europe, and then put
the result to us in an in/out referendum in 2017. Whatever the result of his
efforts to change the terms of our membership, Mr Cameron intends to vote and
campaign to remain in the EU in that referendum.

Acquis communautaire will allow no repatriation of powers to any state, so in
2017 we will be faced with a tinkering around the edges, dressed up by the Prime
Minister as a groundbreaking deal which the country cannot afford to reject.

As this depressing scenario unfolds, the expected influx of immigrants from
eastern Europe begins next January, and the Conservatives will suffer severe
reverses in the 2014 European elections. It would take a brave man to place a
bet on Mr Cameron fighting the next election as leader of his party. Roger
Hopkins Eastbourne, East Sussex

SIR - From 1961 to 1972, as part of a team of key businessmen, I spoke to
meetings throughout Britain arguing the case for the United Kingdom to join for
trade purposes what was then known as the European Common Market. The case for
enjoying the benefits of favourable access to a marketplace of millions of
people was overwhelming.

Had Ted Heath, the chief negotiator, told the British people what the long-term
political consequences of joining the EU would be, I and my team would never
have supported such a policy.

The question to be answered in a referendum should be short and simple: "Stay in
the EU for trade purposes only, or leave?".

John Lidstone Fleet, Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 21, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM urged to end Coalition next year;
Europe the key, says Tory MP

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 970 words


SENIOR TORIES are to urge David Cameron today to break up the Coalition next
year or risk paying the price at the general election.

Graham Brady, the chairman of the 1922 committee of backbench MPs, and Bernard
Jenkin, chairman of the Commons Public Accounts Committee, said the Tories
needed "at least six months" apart from the Liberal Democrats to win voters'
confidence.

Another senior Tory, who served in the Government but declined to be named,
added: "This makes sense, not just for us but also for the Lib Dems."

Mr Cameron has repeatedly said the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats would
remain in government together until the next polling day in May 2015.

With brighter signs of an economic recovery and the Conservative Party
increasingly united over Europe, a growing number of Tory MPs believe that Mr
Cameron should end his partnership with Mr Clegg's Lib Dems sooner rather than
later.

Some Conservatives pushing for an early exit from the Coalition argue that with
Labour becalmed by concerns about Ed Miliband's leadership, the Tories' best
chance of winning a majority may be to call a snap election next year.

Mr Brady said: "It makes sense to plan an exit well in advance of a 2015
election. We need to convey a clear, separate identity and a separate set of
aspirations from the Liberal Democrats.

"You can't get those messages across in three weeks or even three months. You
need a sustained period of time to ensure voters are comfortable with what you
are saying - at least six months."

The Tory grandee also warned of disharmony if the partnership continued.

"The other danger is that the Coalition becomes more ragged and looks less
cohesive," he added.

Mr Jenkin, a senior backbencher, said he supported calls for the Coalition to be
scrapped next year.

"In the end, actions speak louder than words," he said. "Unless we are
campaigning for a coalition after the election we had better show that we mean
what we say and that we want to stand as a separate party and stand for separate
things."

One scenario being talked about in Westminster would see a break-up of the
Coalition in autumn 2014, with a Conservative minority administration ruling
alone, but calling on the Lib Dems to support the 2015 Budget and other key
legislation.

However, a senior government source insisted that there was "no question" of a
break-up before May 2015.

"We have shown that it is perfectly possible to articulate - and deliver -
Conservative policies while being in Coalition," he said.

However, Mr Brady said he believed coalition government had shaken public
confidence in Westminster, by creating less "transparent" and representative
government. "When you have a Coalition it becomes a less open, less transparent
form of government," he said.

"The decisions are taken by a far smaller group of people because what is more
important is squaring both partners.

"I think you get more input from Parliament and the public if you have a
majority government.

"Coalition has not been benefi-cial for either the parties because it has
increased the distance between our members and the parties and Westminster."

Mr Brady criticised the way that many of the key decisions made the Coalition
were reached, not by the Cabinet, but by the so-called "Quad" of the Prime
Minister; Mr Clegg; George Osborne, the Chancellor; and Danny Alexander, the Lib
Dem Chief Secretary to the Treasury.

However, the 1922 committee chairman praised the Prime Minister for trying to
reconnect with the party's grassroots after damaging rebellions over Europe and
samesex marriage earlier this year.

Mr Cameron has largely united his party behind a pledge to renegotiate Britain's
relationship with the European Union if the Tories win the next election and
hold an "in-out" referendum on the new settlement by 2018.

Mr Brady said the Prime Minister should now spell out what powers he wanted to
renegotiate. "We should be more specific and clearer about the type of
renegotiation we want with Europe," he said.

"We should be driving for a very profound renegotiation with Europe with very
little political integration.

"Unless there is a very serious change in our relationship with Europe, I think
the British public will vote to leave."

Mr Brady also warned that the HS2 rail project and next year's European election
could pose "bumps in the road" for Mr Cameron.

Despite having a constituency in Lancashire, he admits he has never been "the
greatest natural advocate" of the £42billion high-speed rail scheme to connect
London with the Midlands and the North.

"HS2 is obviously very problematic for those who have constituencies along the
route," he said. "There is also a lively debate about whether it constitutes
value for money.

"The principal advocates of HS2 have got to be able to answer those questions."

Mr Brady also admitted that there was a likelihood that the UK Independence
Party would win next year's European election.

Some Tories believe such a result would trigger a challenge to Mr Cameron's
leadership.

However, Mr Brady is more sanguine about a victory for Nigel Farage's party in
2014.

"I don't think it would be a disaster if that happened," he said, adding that
people often voted differently in European elections than they did in general
elections.

When the Lib Dems and the Conservatives entered Government together after the
2010 election, both parties stressed that they were doing so "in the national
interest" to address the parlous state of the country's public finances.

One Tory MP said that it would be "unwise to divorce the Lib-Dems" just yet.

"If we do so, we run the risk of looking like working against the national
interest," he said.

"A better tactic would be increasingly to pursue a true Conservative agenda with
more radical welfare reform and tax cuts, and let the Lib Dems get frustrated
and leave of their own accord."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graham Brady: 'Bumps in the road'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 21, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron, the social reformer, takes on the pornographers;
With a political dividend to spend, it is telling that the PM has selected this
mission-for months he has been mulling over the problems of raising children in
the digital age

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1208 words


Tomorrow, David Cameron will give a speech in London on the regulation of
pornography on the internet, the social responsibility of web companies and
what, if anything, the state should do to police the sexually explicit material
that is accessible on digital devices. What ought to be done is one question, of
course; what can be done is another. One of the glories of the web - and the
reason that totalitarians hate it - is that it resists restraint, defies censors
and eludes sabotage. That is why this pulsingly powerful technology is among the
most transformative forces in human history.

In recognition of which, Cameron will say that "the internet is not a sideline
to 'real life' or an escape from 'real life'; it is real life. It has an impact:
on the children who view things that harm them, on the vile images of abuse that
pollute minds and cause crime, on the very values that underpin our society."
So, he will go on: the big internet companies like Google, Bing, and Yahoo have
a responsibility to act, to "step up to the plate" - or face legislation that
will force them to do so.

Why now? Partly because the Prime Minister ends the parliamentary term with
political capital to expend. A few months ago, Ed Miliband was pressing Cameron
hard on economic stagnation and the dangerous disunity in Tory ranks. The PM's
promise of a referendum on EU membership had conspicuously failed to satisfy his
backbenchers, with 114 voting in May for an amendment regretting the absence in
the Queen's Speech of a Bill giving his pledge statutory force. But that wound
was soothed, if not completely healed, by Cameron's strong backing for James
Wharton's European Union (Referendum) Bill.

Privately, the PM concedes that he badly misjudged the level of Tory opposition
to gay marriage. But he has achieved the objective he set himself over
Christmas, which was to get the legislation out of the way before August and
"clear the battlefield". The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Bill received royal
assent on Wednesday. A year from now, I predict, all but a handful of
Conservatives will wonder what the big fuss was about.

Meanwhile, Ed Miliband has been compelled to "recalibrate" his fiscal strategy,
accepting George Osborne's spending envelope for 2015-16, and proposing a
three-year cap on welfare spending. As the Tories have pulled together, his own
party - impressively united for the first 18 months of his leadership - has been
divided by his confrontation with Len McCluskey. One should not underestimate
the Opposition leader's courage in taking on his union paymasters, but there is
no escaping the fact that Labour is now the party that looks introspective and
disunited. Osborne has defined the rules of the fiscal game. The economy is
perking up. The Tories dare to dream of victory.

With an end-of-term political dividend to spend, it is telling that Cameron has
selected this particular mission. For months, he and his communications chief,
Craig Oliver, have been mulling over the problems of raising children in the
digital age and the ease of access to hardcore pornographic material,
unimaginable before broadband, Wi-Fi and the proliferation of smartphones and
tablets. Cameron commissioned Oliver to form a small working party with Laura
Trott, one of the PM's political advisers, and Claire Perry, the MP for Devizes
and the Government's adviser on the sexualisation and commercialisation of
childhood. On Friday, Cameron met the families of April Jones and Tia Sharp,
whose killers both accessed horrific pornography.

It is apt that the PM's intervention should coincide with the disclosure that
Alan Turing, the Enigma codebreaker, is to receive a posthumous pardon, for, as
George Dyson shows in his wonderful book Turing's Cathedral, he was, as much as
anyone, the creator of the digital universe and of modern computer algorithms.
Turing described search engines as "oracle machines" in that they become more
knowledgeable with every human selection. The question now is: can that oracular
wisdom be mined to prevent the proliferation of this ghastly imagery?

Cameron's challenge to the internet companies is to acknowledge the "moral duty"
of their position and, if the problem proves technically complex, to "hold a
hackathon for child safety". There are at least two separate questions here.
First, parents need help in preventing children from seeing pornographic
material that may be legal, but from which the young should be shielded. There
is plenty of disturbing research showing that, in many cases, hardcore porn has
supplanted classroom sex education, grotesquely disfiguring teenagers' concepts
of appropriate sexual behaviour and their expectations of the opposite gender.
This is largely a practical matter: parents who are less digitally literate than
their children need assistance, apps, filters and reassurance. Schools need help
with pupils whose parents neglect the problem (across the social spectrum -
middle-class parental absenteeism being one of the great curses of modern
childhood).

Related but distinct is the question of child pornography and what to do about
it. Cameron's suggestion of automatically triggered warning pages for those
about to trawl illegal sites is intelligent. A blacklist of search terms may
have symbolic deterrent value but, as Nabokov wrote, the predatory paedophile is
"an artist and a madman". The deviousness of those who seek these revolting
images needs to be trumped by intellectual collaboration on a grand scale.

This is not a luddite crusade: the PM and Osborne have long been champions of
online technology, fans of Google and, along with Francis Maude, enthusiastic
supporters of digital government (especially when Steve Hilton and Rohan Silva
were still in No 10). Nor is this sort of regulation in any sense a threat to
free speech: those who say otherwise give a bad name to a precious ideal. These
are criminally disseminated images of criminal acts. Shame on those who claim
that their continued accessibility is the price we pay for liberty, or for the
digital revolution. That is a confusion of freedom with lawless savagery.

It is a while since Cameron has explored this terrain. In the first years of his
leadership, he devoted much time and energy to the pressures of modern
parenthood and family life, and the extent to which government could assist.
This work was overtaken by the crash and its fiscal aftermath, and the PM has
returned to the theme only intermittently - after the riots of 2011, when he
addressed himself afresh to the broken society and troubled families. There is
an unresolved tension at the heart of Cameronism between - for instance - the
belief that companies should allow employees to spend time with their children
and the competing fear that such regulation is the enemy of competitiveness and
growth.

Since the financial crisis of 2008-9, Cameron has been compelled to present
himself as the economic repairman, the chief executive rather than the
paterfamilias. But this was the task chosen for him by his times. He has always
seen himself, first and foremost, as a social reformer, a parent rather than
simply a spokesman for business. It is a sign of restored political confidence
that he is now resuming his favoured role.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 21, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Laid bare, £2bn cost of European red tape

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 810 words


COMPLYING WITH European Union regulations is costing Britain billions of pounds
a year, the first official audit of the cost of membership is to disclose.

The burden on British businesses will be laid bare in a series of reports which
will be published tomorrow by William Hague, the Foreign Secretary.

The audit is made up of six reports - called "Balance of Competences" - which
civil servants have spent months preparing.

Senior Conservatives hope the reports will form the bedrock of a renegotiation
with Brussels, if David Cameron wins the 2015 general election.

Evidence published alongside the reports will show:

More than 400 new laws have been passed by the European Parliament since the
Coalition was formed three years ago, with legislation costing British business
£676million a year;

Complying with the EU Agency Workers' Directive costs British firms as much as
£1.5billion a year;

Less than half of foreign aid money paid by EU institutions goes to help the
world's poorest people.

The initial documents will look at how the EU affects British taxation, health,
overseas aid, foreign policy, animal welfare and food safety.

One of the reports will also provide an overview of how the single market
affects British businesses.

A further 26 reports will be published in coming months, in a boost to the
Euro-sceptic wing of the Conservatives.

However, Tory Government sources indicated that Lib Dem elements of the
Government had "sexed down" some of the more critical evidence of EU waste and
bureaucracy.

"These are sober documents that provide evidence and analysis about Britain's
relationship with Europe - they do not set out future Government policy," said a
senior Foreign Office source.

It is understood one of the key themes of the reports will be that civil
servants in Whitehall often "goldplate" EU regulations unnecessarily to make
such laws more onerous than necessary.

Open Europe, the Euro-sceptic think tank, described the reports as a "useful
exercise that will inform the EU debate for years to come". Stephen Booth, a
researcher for Open Europe, added: "Unless this review is complemented by a more
political strategy to set out the parameters of a future EU renegotiation to
secure more flexible UK membership terms, it will not be sufficient."

The Prime Minister ordered the series of reports on EU influence in July 2012.
The documents focus on how each Whitehall department is influenced by the EU, as
part of the Prime Minister's plan to negotiate a new deal without forcing
Britain to leave the EU entirely.

The Government also sent out a wider survey to all 26 member countries asking
for their opinions on the balance of power between the EU and national
parliaments. However, Mr Cameron's aims received a setback when France and
Germany declined to take part in the exercise.

A senior Lib Dem source con-firmed that Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister,
and other fellow party members had been through the Balance of Competences
studies. "We have fed into and amended these documents just as we would any
government reports," the source said.

"These documents are not about providing Tory Euro-sceptic headbangers with
ammunition to help Britain leave the EU. This is serious, meaty work to assess
the pros and cons of what the European Union does for Britain."

A submission by the British Chambers of Commerce will argue that though its
members value the single market, firms often feel sti-fled by regulations.

"Many of the rules governing the Internal Market are overly complex and
expensive to comply with, which has resulted in burdensome and unacceptably high
regulation costs for UK business," it reads.

"The widespread feeling among chamber members is that there have been a number
of instances where they were provided with insufficient warning or advice before
a new rule was introduced."

Support for Mr Cameron has rallied on the Tory's traditionally Euro-sceptic back
benches since he set out a new policy on Europe earlier this year.

The Prime Minister said that if the Conservatives won the next general election
he would seek to renegotiate Britain's relationship with Europe. Once the
negotiation is complete, Mr Cameron would ask the British public whether it
wants to remain part of the EU in an "in-out referendum", to be held by 2017 at
the latest.

So far, the Conservatives are the only party to commit to an EU referendum.
However, a private member's Bill tabled by the Tory backbencher James Wharton
aims to introduce legislation that would oblige any party that won the next
election to hold such a vote.

In an interview with The Sunday Telegraph this weekend Graham Brady, the
chairman of the 1922 committee, urged Mr Cameron to set out clearly what he
hoped to achieve from a renegotiation with Europe. "We should be driving for a
very profound renegotiation with Europe with very little political integration,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron wants a new EU deal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 14, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Even Ukip has no idea how to get us out of the EU trap

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1110 words


There is virtually no political issue that generates more illinformed nonsense
than whether or not Britain should stay in the EU. We have those 304 MPs voting
for David Cameron's wish to renegotiate our relationship with the EU and put the
results to a referendum no later than 2017. We have Theresa May announcing that
she is going to demand a British opt-out from 133 EU regulations on law and
order, but then apply to opt in again on 35 of them. We have John Cridland, head
of the CBI, repeating yet again the old canard that it would be disastrous for
us to think of emulating Norway and Switzerland, the two richest countries in
Europe, because although they trade freely with the EU's single market, they
have no say in shaping its rules. On and on goes such grandstanding, not
touching reality at any point.

The essence of the problem is that, while the British like some aspects of the
EU, other aspects make them deeply resentful, without them ever really
understanding the rules or how it works. Thus, for many years, as the EU surges
towards "ever closer union", Britain has, in the words of the late Roy Jenkins,
become an ever more "foot-dragging and complaining member". On the one hand, the
pollsters report that up to half or more of British voters want us to leave. On
the other, we have an Establishment "consensus" between most of our politicians,
media and big business, claiming that, although the EU in its present form is
unsatisfactory and needs drastic "reform", we must stay in for all the benefits
we gain from trading with it, and because it gives us "influence".

It is this "consensus" position that is so riddled with contradictions that it
amounts to no more than multiple wishful thinking. There is no way Mr Cameron
could obtain the kind of "à la carte" relationship he hints at, let alone that
he could do so if re-elected, in time for a referendum in 2017. First, the rules
would necessitate a new treaty, requiring procedures so lengthy that it could
not possibly be completed by 2017. Second, the return of powers he claims to
want would breach that most sacred principle of EU law, that national powers
once surrendered can never be given back.

So, legally and practically, it is impossible that Mr Cameron could get anything
of what all those MPs voted for the other day. The only semblance of a realistic
understanding of all the issues involved comes from a research paper recently
published by the House of Commons Library on what would be involved in a British
withdrawal from the EU. This explains, with an authority no MP could muster,
that the only way Britain could continue to trade freely within the single
market without having to accept so much of the rest of the EU's political
baggage, would be to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty.

But this, of course, can only be done by a country giving notice that it wishes
to leave the EU. This alone can compel its fellow members to negotiate with it
the kind of new relationship Mr Cameron says he wants. And this he could not
rule out more emphatically, as again in a recent interview with El País, where
he said there was no way he could support a vote for Britain to leave.

Regardless of Mr Cameron's views, however, the Commons researchers then go on to
explain how Britain could continue to enjoy full access to the single market by
joining Norway and Switzerland as members of the European Free Trade Area
(Efta), or, like Norway, as also a member of the European Economic Area. This is
precisely the option Europhiles such as Mr Cridland are so desperate to
misrepresent, by falsely claiming that Norway has no influence over the single
market's trading rules. Anyone who argues this has no grasp of how the system
works. Not only are Efta members fully consulted in the shaping of singlemarket
legislation, but also much of it now derives from global organisations above the
EU, in which Norway has a voice in its own right, exercising more influence than
Britain, which too often has to allow the EU to speak for it.

But it is this argument - playing on the fear that unless we remain in the EU we
will be without influence and even excluded from trading with it - that would be
made the centrepiece of the stay-in campaign in any referendum on Britain's
continued membership. So relentlessly would it be put over by supporters of the
"consensus", given full voice by the BBC, Open Europe and others, that it is
almost a foregone conclusion that the stay-in vote would win the day.

What has so far been almost wholly lacking from the debate on all this is any
properly worked-out alternative vision of what Britain's future in the world
could be if we were to regain our independence by leaving. Equally lacking,
although it is again explored in the Commons research paper, is any recognition
of just how incredibly complicated a British withdrawal from the EU would be,
because we are enmeshed with it by such a mountain of laws and other legal
obligations. To disentangle all this would present a challenge so immense that
it could only be brought off by a government fully committed to the task and
fired up by a vision of how well Britain could thrive outside the EU. This would
require a degree of political will that so far simply doesn't exist.

One of the odd features of this debate is that the only party committed to a
British exit from the EU, Ukip, appears to have little understanding of how this
could, in practice, be achieved - let alone a positive vision of how well
Britain could fare outside it, to counterbalance the relentless defeatism and
negativity with which the "consensus" Establishment would seek to terrify us
into staying in. Too many Ukip supporters take equal refuge from reality by
pretending that we could simply wave a magic wand by repealing the European
Communities Act. With one mighty bound we would be free. Sorted. These are
children.

I confess that when I read that Commons research paper, although it did not say
anything new, I did end up depressed. Its calm, common-sense reviewing of the
real issues once again brings home just how inane most of the public debate over
Britain's membership of the EU has become. Without the vision and the will to
work for a positive alternative, it seems we are doomed just to limp helplessly
on as a "foot-dragging and complaining member" of the "European project", as it
staggers helplessly on into a drably visionless and ever more uncertain future.
So saying, I am off for a few days to Italy to look at 15th-century paintings,
from the time when Europe was still in that frenzy of creativity and
intellectual engagement that was to make its civilisation the glory of the
world.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fears over trade are forcing us into a frustrating 'consensus' position
with the EU
ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE ATLANTIC TRADE BATTLE;
The US and EU are about to embark on trade talks involving half the world's
economic output. Katherine Rushton reveals the multi-billion pound fight ahead

BYLINE: Katherine Rushton

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1918 words


Washington DC is not a city that lacks for bureaucrats. This week there will be
even more of them than usual. The US capital is about to play host to the first
round of the bilateral trade talks between America and the European Union, a
sweeping set of negotiations, the ultimate aim of which is to reduce the
obstacles to the two economic blocs doing business with each other.

In broad terms, the two sides will try to eliminate import duties on goods
traded between the economic giants. They will also battle to reduce red tape, so
that international businesses can expand more easily.

The sheer scale of America's commercial relationship with Europe means that even
minor improvements will have a major impact on the economies either side of the
Atlantic.

As Europe faces another year of stagnation and economists obsess about the
growing clout of emerging economies such as China, India and Brazil, the trading
relationship between the US and EU remains the biggest in the world.

More than $485bn (£300bn) worth of goods were traded between the two economic
superpowers in the first nine months of 2012. The discussions that start in
Washington tomorrow - formally known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment
Partnership (TTIP) - would create a trading bloc that would encompass nearly
half the world's economic output.

It could be worth an additional £100bn to the EU economy every year, £80bn to
the US and £85bn to the rest of the world.

The talks have been a long time coming. They were put on the agenda in 2011,
when Brussels and Washington asked their respective trade teams to explore what
a deal could look like. But the starting gun was only fired in earnest three
weeks ago, when the EU and US used the G8 summit in Lough Erne, Northern
Ireland, to announce thatWashington would host the first round of talks. The
Prime Minister hailed the discussions as the "biggest bilateral trade deal in
history".

Danny Lopez, the British Consul General in New York, whose primary occupation is
helping British companies expand into America and vice versa, says: "I cannot
over-emphasise its importance. We're looking to agree an ambitious,
comprehensive deal that will help British businesses to grow faster and to
create more jobs."

The discussions are also one of the main reasons now being put forward for
Britain remaining part of the European Union.

Last week, Sir Mike Rake, the new president of the CBI, said that staying in the
EU was "overwhelmingly" in the UK's economic interests.

"As a global trading nation we want the rest of the world to play by an open and
enforceable set of rules," he wrote in The Sunday Telegraph. "Britain could call
for that alone then watch as others made the decisions or, as the EU's
third-largest member, Britain can push the world's largest economic bloc in a
liberal direction.

"It would be deeply and unfortunately ironic if the UK were to consider leaving
the EU having just helped create a massive Euro-American trade area." Britain
has not left the EU yet, of course, but it will need to remain in the game for
some time if it wants to help shape the TTIP talks, referendum or no referendum.
America has said it wants to use the current G8 momentum to reach a bilateral
trade agreement "on a single tank of gas" but even optimists bet on the talks
lasting a good 18 months. Others speculate that upwards of three years is much
more realistic.

Looming over the TTIP discussions is the cautionary tale of the Doha
International trade talks, which lasted a decade but have now all but collapsed
without a deal being reached.

There are already political clouds threatening the TTIP discussions. There is
growing distrust between the EU member states and the US, following allegations
that America and the UK have been spying on their allies during previous
negotiations.

France went so far as to call for the brakes to be put on the Washington talks.
"We cannot accept this kind of behaviour between partners and allies. We ask
that this immediately stop," said President François Hollande. "There can be no
negotiations or transactions in all areas until we have obtained these
guarantees for France but also for all of the EU, for all partners of the US."
The talks are going ahead as planned but tensions are riding high. Around 120
representatives from the US and EU trade teams will meet and then split into
about 10 groups. The delegates, all experts in different areas, will discuss
everything from the ingredients which need to be listed on the packets of
anti-aging creams to whether a lawyer trained in London should be able to work
in New York with the same set of qualifications.

They will report back to Ignacio Garcia-Bercero, the EU's chief negotiator, and
Dan Mullaney, his US counterpart throughout the talks, who will then agree how
the TTIP will proceed.

Both sides want to do away with as many import tariffs as possible and to
eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy but, before they even begin looking at the red
tape, they must agree how to frame discussions.

Should they start from the premise that all tariffs are abolished and decide
what to "reintroduce"? Or should they assess import taxes industry by industry?
They will also examine which red tape issues can be dealt with quickly and which
will become the focus for protracted and potentially painful discussions.

As most of America clocked out of work to enjoy the long Independence Day
weekend, EU and Washington representatives on Capitol Hill were preparing their
tactics.

One of the more straightforward items on the agenda is the matter of import
duties. Tariffs between the US and EU are relatively low by global standards -
averaging 5.2pc for goods to the EU and 3.5pc for those into the US - but the
sheer volume of trade between these two economic blocs means any reduction would
create significant savings.

"Many British firms already do business with the US, our largest single export
market, but by liberalising tariffs we could save UK businesses around £1bn a
year," says Lopez.

"One major car manufacturer told us they will save roughly £130m annually from
eliminating tariffs on intra-company transfers of components, and finished cars.
The chemical sector is a big UK industry and eliminating tariffs on chemicals
could save more than £400m each year purely on trade within multinational
chemical companies alone."

These sorts of industries, which import huge volumes of goods across the EU-US
border, will be major beneficiaries of the move to reduce import duties but a
reduction in tariffs could be transformative for other sectors, where current
import taxes are considerably higher. The US is particularly punitive when it
comes to textiles, clothing and footwear imported from the EU, for example,
imposing tariffs of 40pc, 32pc and 56pc respectively. There are also surprising
taxes for goods catering to specific markets, for example ceramic tableware for
hotels and restaurants. Importers must pay around 28pc of the cost again in
taxes just to bring such goods into America.

"These tariffs affect companies as diverse as Emma Bridgewater pottery and
Savile Row tailors Huntsman," says Lopez.

There will have to be some give, however, and some of it may be hard to stomach
for Europe. The EU imposes sky-high taxes on crops and foodstuffs imported from
America, which have played a crucial part in ensuring there is a market for
European farmers to sell to.

The EU also levies 350pc duty on tobacco, helping to cover the cost of treating
the damage it does to the health of those who use it and ensuring the price is
high enough to deter many would-be smokers from taking up the habit. The US is
expected to call for reductions in such taxes, which are unlikely to win popular
approval in Europe.

Bureaucrats on both sides of the negotiating table will be acutely aware that
they not only have to get their proposals past their opposite number. They also
have to get them past the voters back home.

In many ways, it is the thorny tangle of bureaucracy which is the hardest part
of TTIP's task. The discrepancies in the red tape regimes of the EU and US cost
companies untold billions of pounds in revenue every year and is estimated to
deprive the UK of around £8bn in trade.

Almost every sector has its own examples of bureaucratic confusion - a set of
hoops to jump through to gain entry to the US market and a near identical set of
hoops to gain entry to the EU market as well.

In the car industry, for example, manufacturers must send their vehicles
careering into walls twice to pass near-identical safety tests.

Similarly, they have to spend half of the week fitting vehicles with one type of
airbag to cars and then the other half fitting an alternative model.

Pharmaceutical companies, worth £31.8bn in Britain, must run two separate, very
similar sets of tests on medical devices and drugs.

Meanwhile, the cosmetics industry must produce a separate set of labels for
goods to be sold in Europe and the US, because American regulators will not
accept the term "aqua".

A set of agreements between America and the EU to recognise and accept each
other's standards will instantly sweep away costs, which are currently passed on
to the consumer.

They will also make it much easier for lawyers, accountants and certain other
professionals to travel between the two blocs, instead of being welded to the
one they trained for.

That is a change that would not only unlock economic benefits; it would also
open up entirely different career paths and lifestyles to millions of
individuals.

"Mutual recognition of professional qualifications in areas like accountancy,
engineering, architecture, electronic communications, transport and legal
services would reduce significant barriers," says Lopez.

"A UK lawyer's qualifications are not fully recognised in the US, which is an
impediment to practice. If both Europe and America equally recognise each
other's professional qualifications, it should lead to higher numbers of
professionals on both sides of the Atlantic, and more competition means better
prices for consumers."

Another issue lying in the in-tray marked "thorny" is the airline industry.
International carriers are currently forbidden from selling empty seats on
planes once they have made a stop on US soil. The upshot is that many
transatlantic flights finish the last legs of their journey empty.

The shipping industry is also bound with red tape that prevents European
carriers from expanding. Goods vessels that travel between American ports must
be American.

These rules might seem anachronistic, and in some cases wildly out of kilter
with the green agenda, but in many ways they epitomise the dif-ficulties that
the TTIP discussions are likely to encounter. Old-fashioned laws have been
allowed to remain in place under pressure from powerful industry lobby groups,
often opposed to any change that might usher in stiffer competition from
international players.

The 120 or so trade representatives in Washington next week will be keen to
avoid "another Doha" but what might seem perfectly reasonable from one side's
perspective could prove inflammatory to the other.

Reaching agreements will be easier said than done, argues Hiddo Houben, head of
the EU's trade office.

"These industries are extremely unionised in America so it is going to be tough.

"What is left is really difficult stuff. These are not going to be easy
negotiations."

Almost every sector has a set of hoops to jump through to gain entry

The talks are one of the main reasons for Britain staying part of the EU

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, above left,
and President Barack Obama are backing a new trade deal between America and
Europe
ALAMY/EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CBI WARNS ON EU EXIT: 'WELL NEVER BE A SWITZERLAND'

BYLINE: GRAHAM RUDDICK

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 343 words


THE debate on Britain leaving the European Union must not be based on "hollow
rhetoric", the director-general of the CBI John Cridland has warned, amid
growing concern there is no credible alternative for the UK.

MPs voted unanimously on Friday in favour of a parliamentary law designed to
guarantee that an in-out referendum on the EU will be held in 2017.

However, Mr Cridland warned those pushing for an exit from Europe must provide a
"clear, evidence-led vision" for the UK.

The CBI has produced a report that shows a Norwegian or Swiss-style relationship
with the EU may be no better than full membership for the UK.

Norway and Switzerland are not members of the EU, but enjoy access to the single
market. Norway is part of the single market through its membership of the
European Economic Area, while Switzerland has negotiated a free-trade deal and
more than 120 bilateral agreements with the EU.

However, in the CBI's report, which includes interviews with a range of
Norwegian and Swiss businesses and politicians, it said that both countries had
to comply with EU laws and standards without having the power to influence them.

Mr Cridland said: "The debate on Europe is not going away anytime soon, and it's
vital that those arguing the case for staying in the EU, and those pressing for
an exit, come up with clear, evidence-led visions for the UK.

"We must consider what an alternative for the UK would look like, based on hard
facts, not emotion or hollow rhetoric.

"There is a real sense among business leaders across the Continent that major
reform is needed and that the EU should be focusing on growth."

Mr Cridland's comments come after the new president of the CBI, Sir Mike Rake,
made an impassioned call for Britain to retain its membership of the EU, saying
that it was "overwhelmingly" in the UK's economic interest.

Sir Mike, who is also chairman of BT, wrote in The Sunday Telegraph last
weekend: "It would be deeply and unfortunately ironic if the UK were to consider
leaving the EU having just helped create a massive Euro-American trade area."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Switzerland: free-trade deal and 120 bilateral agreements
Norway: EU access as member of European Economic Area

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Can Cracknell crack the European Parliament?;
The Olympian is taking on his next challenge, and it's a big one-Europe. He
talks to Neil Tweedie

BYLINE: Neil Tweedie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 957 words


James Cracknell is so obviously a decent guy, as straight in talk as jaw, that
the same question keeps cropping up: why, oh why does he want to be a Member of
the European Parliament, the gravy train that in its corruption and excess makes
Westminster look like something you wind up with a key.

Imagine it: our James, double Olympic rowing gold medallist, conqueror of ocean
and wilderness, rubbing shoulders with well-fed placemen from Greece and Cyprus
and Bulgaria. There he sits in his headphones, trying earnestly to keep track of
a five-hour debate on guano quotas, while Georgios and the boys (average salary
and benefits £183,000 a year) fill out their expenses forms.

"You can moan from the sidelines or do something about it," he offers in
explanation. "The European Union is going to affect my children and
grandchildren. I'd like to think I could have an effect - bring a fresh
perspective. It's not something I have to do, it's something I want to do."

Thereby proving that his masochistic tendency (rowing naked across the Atlantic,
traversing the Antarctic while suffering frostbite) is in rude health. The man
himself, a father of three, looks well, too. He is training for next month's
duathlon world championships in Ottawa and breaks off now and then to seal a
deal on eBay for wheels for his racing bicycle.

Cracknell is trying to secure a place on the list of Conservative candidates for
the South-West England and Gibraltar super-constituency in the European
elections next May. Under a system of proportional representation, Cracknell
needs to win third place on the Conservative list for the region if he is to
stand a chance of replacing retiring MEP Giles Chichester.

Standing for elected office is a small matter for Cracknell, who should, by
rights, be dead. On July 10 2010, he was cycling along Route 66 in Arizona when
he was hit on the back of the head by the wing mirror of a petrol tanker
travelling at 70mph. The impact caused his brain to swing violently in his
skull, crushing the frontal lobes.

"The neurologist put it quite nicely when he said that I had 'rung my own
bell'," he jokes. But there was nothing funny about the outcome. Cracknell
suffered far-reaching effects, including epilepsy, lapses in memory, loss of
smell and, most disturbingly for his wife, the journalist Beverley Turner,
changes to his character.

"I had gone from being a member of society, to a member of a subgroup," he says.
"The frontal lobes control personality, empathy, planning, motivation and
problem-solving. I found that I couldn't shift from an idea - it was as if I was
wearing concrete shoes. Like my son talking with his mouth full. That's what
six-year-old kids do, but it became such an issue for me that neither he nor Bev
wanted to eat with me."

The nadir came when, during a row he cannot even remember, Cracknell found
himself trying to strangle his wife. The very thought of it pains him deeply.
"We have always had a 'one strike and you're out' policy on infidelity, and
certainly anything like violence," he says. "I can't remember anything about it
but I think I was in my concrete shoes and couldn't back down. It frightened Bev
but she realised it wasn't me, and it made her more determined to seek proper
care and rehabilitation.

"Bev has been crucial to my recovery. She has always been adamant that I had a
window in which to make changes. With brain injury, you have three years to get
to where you are going. My three years run out next week."

Cracknell, 41, was enticed into politics partly by Jonathan Marland, a former
treasurer of the Conservative Party, now in the House of Lords. He convinced the
sportsman that not being a member of the political class was no disqualification
to political office.

Conservatism, Cracknell feels, is his natural home. "I believe that if you work
hard you should be rewarded, and have as little red tape as possible put in your
way. But you must catch people who are unable to do the same."

His physiotherapist mother and accountant father were working-class children who
moved up into the middle class. James was the first in his family to go to
university, choosing Reading so that he could train on the Thames with Sir Steve
Redgrave.

What is Cracknell's opinion of British membership of the EU, and David Cameron's
promise of a referendum on that membership if the Conservatives win the next
general election, then? "If, after negotiations, nothing has changed, Cameron
will come out," he says. "There are so many things that need changing. There is
too much red tape for small businesses, not enough emphasis on innovation. For
every £1 we have saved through austerity cuts, £2 has gone to Europe. The EU
wastes £160 million a year just to have two bases for its parliament, in
Brussels and Strasbourg. We trade as much with India as Belgium, which, as nice
as chocolate is, is not the best thing for the future."

In his unambiguous campaign literature, he says: "We should not be frightened of
the prospect of life outside of the EU." He is a patriot, confident in Britain's
ability to go it alone, if necessary, but believes that Europe - "them", as he
calls the EU - should be given a last chance. "We have backed ourselves as a
nation throughout history. Nationalism failed for them. We don't have the same
fear.

"We have huge cultural ties around the world and we ought to make the most of
them. I value the tolerance we show as a society - it is of huge value - but we
need to make sure that immigration is beneficial for us."

Cracknell can't taste much nowadays - his damaged brain does not allow him to.
But does he taste victory? "I don't know. But there is something within each of
us that we don't expect, and without discovering it, we lead more limited
lives."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Cracknell: 'There are so many things that need changing'
ANDREW CROWLEY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MPs prepare to lose gold-plated pension plans

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 549 words


MEMBERS OF Parliament face the end of their "gold-plated" final-salary pension
schemes as part of a shake-up of their taxpayer-funded pay and perks regime.

High-level talks are taking place about a "range of options" - one of which
would see MPs' pensions being put on a similar footing to the new arrangements
for other public-sector workers.

The age at which an MP's pension kicks in, currently 65, could be raised first
to 67 and then to 68 under the plans being discussed.

News of the talks, which involve senior government and opposition figures, comes
as the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority (Ipsa) prepares to
recommend a big pay rise for MPs.

Sir Ian Kennedy, Ipsa's chairman, is this week expected to recommend a
£10,000-a-year increase, which would take a standard MP's salary to around
£75,000. He will also propose changes in pension arrangements aimed at saving
the taxpayer money.

The dispute over pay rises has seen David Cameron claim it would be
"unthinkable" for the cost of politics to increase, while Ed Miliband, the
Labour leader, has said MPs' rises should be limited to one per cent - in line
with most public-sector workers.

However, Ipsa was given full statutory control of MPs' pay and pensions in the
wake of the 2009 expenses scandal, exposed by The Telegraph, and under the
rules, parliamentarians do not get a simple vote on its recommendations.

If Ipsa insists on a big rise - a move bound to be highly unpopular with voters
- MPs may have to pass a new law in order to reject it.

The suggested salary increase has provoked criticism and, yesterday, Nigel
Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, chimed in on the issue, saying that
MPs' pay should be "linked to responsibility" and that they should get a 75 per
cent salary cut because they had given away 75 per cent of their
responsibilities to Europe.

"This would save the taxpayer money and ensure we had a referendum on our
membership of the EU very quickly," Mr Farage said.

Amid the chaos, senior figures have been exploring the move which would end
finalsalary schemes for MPs.

Currently they pay a fixed rate of 13.75 per cent of their £65,738 annual
salaries into the scheme, which pays out when they reach 65. They can build a
pension of roughly £30,000 a year after 20 years.

Payments to retired MPs cost the taxpayer about £13.5million a year.

The new move could see MPs being shifted on to a pension scheme based on their
average earnings over the course of their parliamentary careers, similar to the
arrangement reached with millions of public-sector staff - including local
government workers, NHS staff, teachers and civil servants. The new
public-sector deals will be phased in from next April.

Sir Ian has already signalled that MPs face big changes to their generous
pension arrangements, saying last year: "It is more expensive to the taxpayer
and the benefits are greater than associated with most other public sector
pensions."

A Downing Street spokesman said that, under "the current process", Ipsa's report
would be followed by a period of consultation, after which the watchdog had the
power to make the final decision on what MPs should be paid.

Mr Cameron is understood not to have seen a copy of Sir Ian's recommendations.

£13.5m The annual cost to the taxpayer of paying MPs' pensions

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Everything hangs on Ed's battle with Labour's past;
The showdown between Mr Miliband and the unions will define his destiny -and the
future direction of the party he leads

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1172 words


It is a measure of Chuka Umunna's rising stock that his senior Labour colleagues
are quoting his advice in this, the worst crisis thus far of Ed Miliband's
leadership. The shadow business secretary has urged them to read and absorb
Barack Obama's speech on race and Pastor Jeremiah Wright, delivered in
Philadelphia in March 2008.

What started as a constituency scandal in Falkirk has become a national
confrontation between Miliband and Len McCluskey, the general secretary of
Unite. The resignation from the shadow cabinet of Tom Watson - a close ally of
McCluskey - has only fuelled the flames of controversy. Like Watson's
resignation from the Labour front bench in 2006, to which he alluded in his
resignation letter, it has forced the question: who's in charge? The answer
seven years ago was: Gordon Brown and his gang, who successfully forced Tony
Blair from office. What is the answer in 2013?

In addressing this question, Obama's speech is useful because it reminds
Miliband and his colleagues both of their duty to act and of the parameters
within which they must operate as they do so. Even if Labour were now to sever
all ties with the unions - an unlikely outcome - the party could not deny its
origins in the union movement any more than Miliband could deny that he owes his
leadership to the union vote (as the preferred candidate of the GMB and Unison,
as well as Unite).

Five years ago, Obama said the same of his relationship with Pastor Wright: "I
can no more disown him than I can disown the black community." But the
presidential contender's message was not one of craven support for his former
preacher and his anti-American rhetoric: far from it. Unless the nation was
honest about the question of race, it could not address all the other issues
facing the United States: "If we walk away now, if we simply retreat into our
respective corners [on racial politics], we will never be able to come together
and solve challenges like health care, or education, or the need to find good
jobs for every American." The challenge, Obama said, was to resist this urge to
retreat, and to declare: "Not this time."

What Miliband is pondering this weekend is how to prevent this from being a
familiar disaster - Labour leader sunk in the quicksand of union power - and to
make of it a dramatisation both of his personal claim to govern and his party's
readiness for office. He grasps, I am told, that everything hangs on this bout
with McCluskey and the sawtoothed ghosts of Labour's past. Even as Ed faces
calamity, David Cameron surfs past him on the waves of better economic
statistics and the Tory parliamentary unity celebrated in Friday's vote on the
EU referendum. For the PM, the scandal is a gift that keeps on giving.

First, it has stripped bare the machine politics that the Labour leader claims
to deplore, but that helped him to beat his brother in 2010. "There can be
absolutely no question about who runs the Labour Party," McCluskey said last
week. "It is Ed Miliband and he has my full support." This was ominously
reminiscent of the moment when Jim Mortimer, the Labour Party secretary, said,
days before the 1983 election, that "the unanimous view of the campaign
committee is that Michael Foot is the leader". This is not a happy precedent for
a man trying to replace a first-term Conservative Prime Minister.

McCluskey is an ideologue, a dialectician who deplores Miliband's "One Nation"
slogan as an affront to the war between capital and labour. Though he speaks a
Marxist patois, he has the countenance of a US labour-movement tough guy: a
Scouse Jimmy Hoffa. He looks like he could eat Miliband for his tea. All the
more important that he doesn't. The Labour leader can be as magnanimous as he
likes, or has to be: but the electorate can be in no doubt that he has won.

Second, Miliband is being given a crash course in disunity. To an impressive
extent - especially given the fratricidal origins of his leadership - he has
held the Labour Party together for more than two-and-ahalf years. But the
"recalibration" on public spending and welfare that he and Ed Balls disclosed
last month - a recognition that austerity will carry on into the next Parliament
- has awoken the fractious beast of Labour division. Now, the movement has been
plunged into full-blown internal conflict by the confrontation between the
leader of the party and the boss of the biggest union.

What will the exiled Blairites do? In 1996, Stephen Byers - himself tipped, in
those days, as a future leader - astonished journalists at a seafood restaurant
in Blackpool by floating the idea of a complete break between party and unions.
Tony Blair barely concealed his view of the historic connection. Even in
September 2006 as he announced his forthcoming resignation, he said that "the
next TUC conference next week will be my last TUC - probably to the relief of
both of us". Ed Miliband was never cut from this cloth: during the failed
coalition negotiations between Labour and the Lib Dems, he frequently objected
that the unions would not go for this or that proposal.

Ed's loyalty to the link delivered him the top job - and led, ultimately, to his
defeated elder brother resigning his South Shields seat and leaving to head the
International Rescue Committee in New York. David Miliband must be sorely
tempted to call his brother to inquire politely if he could do with a spot of
international rescue himself right now. But how will the other purged,
marginalised or otherwise absent Blairites respond? John Reid, Alan Milburn,
Peter Mandelson - even Blair himself?

The alternative is a hideous reopening of the Blairite-Brownite split that has
intermittently disfigured Labour politics since 1994. Watson's references in his
resignation letter to those "who have not forgiven me for resigning in 2006" and
"unattributed" briefings picked at the scab. They suggested battle-readiness.

Miliband's task is to prevent any such outburst. As one astute Blairite put it
to me, Unite is now behaving like the Tea Party: "Allow an outside force to
select your candidates and you will pay the price very quickly - because social
media gives them a voice when, in the past, they had to build up to it." That's
spot on. The Labour leader's challenge is to make sure that Tony's scattered
forces do not say "We told you so" too loudly, or feel obliged, or tempted, or
both, to turn on him.

The Tories have found in their polls that the slogan "same old Labour" rings
bells with the electorate. This spectacle is all they could have wished for -
and more. Indeed, the only thing Cameron can get wrong in this case is to say
too much, to look too smug, and to make a single-party issue into a partisan
contest.

Nor should the PM assume anything in this extraordinary drama. Maybe Miliband
will, with Obama, say: "Not this time". As one senior source puts it: "Ed has a
gift for turning perceived strengths into actual strengths." We are promised
"decisive action", and perhaps it shall be forthcoming. What is certain is that
nothing less will do.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Tories are finally united over Europe, but expert but expert more hiccups
before any referendum

BYLINE: IAIN MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 667 words


Will the Tory Bill on the EU mean a referendum happens?

On Friday, almost every Conservative MP voted in the Commons to back a private
member's Bill on the EU. It is designed to offer voters an in-out referendum by
2017. Labour and the Lib Dems abstained.

However, the Bill as it stands is not guaranteed to become law, despite the
backing of David Cameron. The Tories do not have a majority in the Commons and
supporters of the existing British relationship with the EU will do their best
to derail the measure as it winds its way through both Houses of Parliament.

The measure is also, in one sense, a constitutional absurdity. A parliament or
government cannot bind its successor, and if there were another coalition after
2015, or a Labour majority government, it could easily find a way of ignoring
the legislation.

Yet, Friday's vote does have considerable political significance. It illustrates
that the Conservatives will fight the next general election promising the
country that if there is a Tory government, the public will get a vote, after
ministers have tried a full-scale renegotiation of the terms of UK membership.

Wasn't David Cameron originally opposed to an in-out vote?

Yes. It shows how far the Tory leadership has come that, under extreme pressure
from its own MPs and Ukip, it now has a policy very different from that of just
a few years ago.

Back then Mr Cameron's team were contemptuous of those who were agitating for a
referendum, because they feared it could break the Coalition with the Europhile
Lib Dems and undermine relations with major European powers such as Germany.
When 81 Tory MPs rebelled in October 2011 to demand an in-out vote, the
leadership was furious and pledged revenge on those who had defied No 10. The
subsequent success of Ukip's Nigel Farage, who wants an immediate referendum and
withdrawal from the EU, has forced the Prime Minister to shift ahead of the next
election.

It was hardly a straightforward process, with many Eurosceptic MPs doubting his
sincerity and voicing concerns. But Mr Cameron's calm decision to back the
private member's Bill on a referendum, combined with Labour's recent troubles,
has boosted Tory confidence to such levels that some of its MPs now confidently
predict the party will win the next election.

Are the Tories actually united on Europe?

They seem to be - for now.

After the acrimony of earlier this year, there is now the novel spectacle of
broad Tory unity in Parliament. Only the veteran Europhile Ken Clarke and a
handful of other MPs oppose the new policy.

However, peace and harmony have their limits. If Mr Cameron were to win the next
election, he would find himself in very difficult renegotiations with the EU,
with many of his party desperate to leave - precisely what he wants to avoid
doing.

How will Ukip respond?

Nigel Farage's party has prospered in part thanks to previous Tory divisions on
the question of a referendum. With some of those divisions resolved, it could
become more difficult for Ukip.

Mr Farage will have to decide whether he sticks with the straightforward line
that Mr Cameron cannot be trusted to deliver, or whether he attempts an overture
and revives risky talk of a putative Eurosceptic pact. That might drive away
voters attracted by Ukip's anti-establishment credentials.

Will Ed Miliband offer a referendum?

The Labour leader has enough to contend with in terms of the fallout from
Falkirk and the row over trade union power within the Labour Party.

But when he has finished dealing with that crisis, he will still have to decide
what his party's position is. There is division within the shadow cabinet and
some Labour MPs believe it would be ludicrous for the party to go into the next
election arguing against giving the public a vote on settling the EU debate once
and for all.

Mr Miliband hopes to avoid having to commit to a referendum, but his approach
seems to be based on the rather futile hope that the question of EU membership
would somehow go away if he became prime minister.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ministers to seize back 100 EU powers;
'Chance to put British law ahead of Brussels'

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 838 words


AROUND 100 powers are to be permanently seized from Europe in a dramatic move
this week.

In the first part of efforts to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the
European Union, ministers will announce plans to claw back the powers.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, will give MPs details of proposals to opt out
of 133 EU measures covering justice, home affairs and the police - including the
controversial European Arrest Warrant - by next spring.

Some of the measures that are seen to be in the national interest will then be
opted back into, in a complex process, but "more than two thirds" will disappear
permanently from British law, The Sunday Telegraph has learnt.

The move follows last week's unanimous Commons vote in favour of moves to hold
an "in-out" referendum on Britain's membership of the EU by 2017.

David Cameron has promised to hold a referendum after a major diplomatic drive
to redefine the terms of Britain's relationship with the 27 other countries in
the union.

Senior government sources said the announcement on the mass justice and home
affairs opt-out, which is expected on Tuesday, should be seen in this context,
while Tory Eurosceptics, who originally wanted all 133 measures to be dumped
permanently, said that the move was an "acid test" of the Prime Minister's
renegotiation strategy.

It could also open up a new rift with the Liberal Democrats, who oppose Mr
Cameron's referendum plan.

Tuesday's announcement will be made after months of intense internal wrangling
between Tories and Lib Dems over which justice and home affairs powers should be
kept and which should be permanently dropped.

Conservative ministers want to exploit Labour's confusion over whether it will
make its own referendum pledge, as well as the party's wider diffi-culties
surrounding the row over attempts by the Unite union, its biggest paymaster, to
influence the selection of parliamentary candidates.

Other flagship coalition measures likely to appeal to Conservative supporters
will be spelt out in detail this week - including the new curriculum for five-to
14-year-olds that will see Winston Churchill restored to history lessons and
plans for the privatisation of Royal Mail.

Mrs May is expected to tell MPs that the process of opting out of the EU's
justice and home affairs measures by the end of May 2014 - as Britain is
entitled to do under the terms of the 2009 Lisbon Treaty - will be followed by a
process of opting back into some laws that it is in the national interest to
retain.

The most controversial is the European Arrest Warrant, which senior Conservative
sources say gives rise to "concerns" - including the fact that Britain currently
hands over many more suspects to other countries than it receives to face
justice here.

Other concerns include the length of time suspects can be held without trial in
some other EU countries and the apparently trivial offences for which British
police are asked to arrest people so that they can be sent abroad.

Ministers have been pressing for the warrant to be "reformed", amid signs that
it could be one of the measures that is eventually retained. The Lib Dems are
key supporters of the warrant.

Other measures among the scores from which Britain is expected to opt out
include DNA profiling and fingerprint checking, some co-operation on
cross-border crimes and plans for an EU-wide driving ban.

One plan Britain is particularly keen not to be part of is that of a
European-wide public prosecutor with sweeping powers of investigation and arrest
across member states.

Although some laws will remain after the "opt back in" process, Conservative
sources last night welcomed the symbolism of the announcement of a major opt-out
of EU powers just days after plans for an in/out referendum got a 304-vote
unanimous backing in the Commons. Dominic Raab, a Conservative MP, said: "This
is a crucial opportunity to put British law enforcement ahead of Brussels'
thirst for political control and an acid test for the wider Conservative
strategy of renegotiating terms with the EU."

Meanwhile, a leading Lib Dem minister has said another coalition government is
"increasingly likely" as no party will win an overall majority at the 2015
election.

Steve Webb, the pensions minister, said British politics had now entered "an era
of parties working together" where leaders will have to do deals to secure a
Commons majority and that the "remorseless fragmentation" of the traditional
two-party system means coalitions are almost inevitable.

Senior figures in both the Conservative and Labour parties have suggested trying
to govern as a minority government if their party finishes first in 2015 but
falls short of an overall majority.

In an interview with The Sunday Telegraph, Mr Webb says another coalition
involving the Lib Dems would be more stable than any such arrangement.

"My personal view is that stability is really important - having a government
programme for five years rather than endless speculation about a confidence
vote, another election," he said.

Steve Webb: Page 4

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Britain to size back 100 EU powers

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 851 words


AROUND 100 powers are to be permanently seized from Europe in a dramatic move
this week.

In the first part of efforts to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the
European Union, ministers will announce plans to claw back the powers.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, will give MPs details of proposals to opt out
of 133 EU measures covering justice, home affairs and the police - including the
controversial European Arrest Warrant - by next spring.

Some of the measures that are seen to be in the national interest will then be
opted back into, in a complex process, but "more than two thirds" will disappear
permanently from British law, The Sunday Telegraph has learnt.

The move follows last week's unanimous Commons vote in favour of moves to hold
an "in-out" referendum on Britain's membership of the EU by 2017.

David Cameron has promised to hold a referendum after a major diplomatic drive
to redefine the terms of Britain's relationship with the 27 other countries in
the union.

Senior government sources said the announcement on the mass justice and home
affairs opt-out, which is expected on Tuesday, should be seen in this context,
while Tory Eurosceptics, who originally wanted all 133 measures to be dumped
permanently, said that the move was an "acid test" of the Prime Minister's
renegotiation strategy.

It could also open up a new rift with the Liberal Democrats, who oppose Mr
Cameron's referendum plan.

Tuesday's announcement will be made after months of intense internal wrangling
between Tories and Lib Dems over which justice and home affairs powers should be
kept and which should be permanently dropped.

Conservative ministers want to exploit Labour's confusion over whether it will
make its own referendum pledge, as well as the party's wider diffi-culties
surrounding the row over attempts by the Unite union, its biggest paymaster, to
influence the selection of parliamentary candidates.

Other flagship coalition measures likely to appeal to Conservative supporters
will be spelt out in detail this week - including the new curriculum for five-
to 14-year-olds that will see Winston Churchill restored to history lessons and
plans for the privatisation of Royal Mail.

Mrs May is expected to tell MPs that the process of opting out of the EU's
justice and home affairs measures by the end of May 2014 - as Britain is
entitled to do under the terms of the 2009 Lisbon Treaty - will be followed by a
process of opting back into some laws that it is in the national interest to
retain.

The most controversial is the European Arrest Warrant, which senior Conservative
sources say gives rise to "concerns" - including the fact that Britain currently
hands over many more suspects to other countries than it receives to face
justice here.

Other concerns include the length of time suspects can be held without trial in
some other EU countries and the apparently trivial offences for which British
police are asked to arrest people so that they can be sent abroad.

Ministers have been pressing for the warrant to be "reformed", amid signs that
it could be one of the measures that is eventually retained. The Lib Dems are
key supporters of the warrant.

Other measures among the scores from which Britain is expected to opt out
include DNA profiling and fingerprint checking, some co-operation on
cross-border crimes and plans for an EU-wide driving ban.

One plan Britain is particularly keen not to be part of is that of a
European-wide public prosecutor with sweeping powers of investigation and arrest
across member states.

Although some laws will remain after the "opt back in" process, Conservative
sources last night welcomed the symbolism of the announcement of a major opt-out
of EU Continued on Page 2

Continued from Page 1 powers just days after plans for an in/out referendum got
a 304-vote unanimous backing in the Commons. Dominic Raab, a Conservative MP,
said: "This is a crucial opportunity to put British law enforcement ahead of
Brussels' thirst for political control and an acid test for the wider
Conservative strategy of renegotiating terms with the EU."

Meanwhile, a leading Lib Dem minister has said another coalition government is
"increasingly likely" as no party will win an overall majority at the 2015
election.

Steve Webb, the pensions minister, said British politics had now entered "an era
of parties working together" where leaders will have to do deals to secure a
Commons majority and that the "remorseless fragmentation" of the traditional
two-party system means coalitions are almost inevitable.

Senior figures in both the Conservative and Labour parties have suggested trying
to govern as a minority government if their party finishes first in 2015 but
falls short of an overall majority.

In an interview with The Sunday Telegraph, Mr Webb says another coalition
involving the Lib Dems would be more stable than any such arrangement.

"My personal view is that stability is really important - having a government
programme for five years rather than endless speculation about a confidence
vote, another election," he said. Steve Webb: Page 4

Continued from Page 1 powers [...]

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 7, 2013
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Britain to aize back 100 EU powers

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 620 words


AROUND 100 powers are to be permanently seized from Europe in a dramatic move
this week.

In the first part of efforts to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the
European Union, ministers will announce plans to claw back the powers.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, will give MPs details of proposals to opt out
of 133 EU measures covering justice, home affairs and the police - including the
controversial European Arrest Warrant - by next spring.

Under EU rules, the Government has to opt out of all justice powers
simultaneously but can then choose to opt back in to those it wants to keep. It
is expected, however, that two-thirds of the 133 laws are to be permanently
jettisoned.

The move follows last week's unanimous Commons vote in favour of moves to hold
an "in-out" referendum on Britain's membership of the EU by 2017.

David Cameron has promised to hold a referendum after a major diplomatic drive
to redefine the terms of Britain's relationship with the 27 other countries in
the union.

Senior government sources said the announcement on the mass justice and home
affairs opt-out, which is expected on Tuesday, should be seen in this context,
while Tory Eurosceptics, who originally wanted all 133 measures to be dumped
permanently, said that the move was an "acid test" of the Prime Minister's
renegotiation strategy.

It could also open up a new rift with the Liberal Democrats, who oppose Mr
Cameron's referendum plan.

Tuesday's announcement will be made after months of intense internal wrangling
between Tories and Lib Dems over which justice and home affairs powers should be
kept and which should be permanently dropped.

Conservative ministers want to exploit Labour's confusion over whether it will
make its own referendum pledge, as well as the party's wider diffi-culties
surrounding the row over attempts by the Unite union, its biggest paymaster, to
influence the selection of parliamentary candidates.

Other flagship coalition measures likely to appeal to Conservative supporters
will be spelt out in detail this week - including the new curriculum for five-
to 14-year-olds that will see Winston Churchill restored to history lessons and
plans for the privatisation of Royal Mail.

Mrs May is expected to tell MPs that the process of opting out of the EU's
justice and home affairs measures by the end of May 2014 - as Britain is
entitled to do under the terms of the 2009 Lisbon Treaty - will be followed by a
process of opting back into some laws that it is in the national interest to
retain.

The most controversial is the European Arrest Warrant, which senior Conservative
sources say gives rise to "concerns" - including the fact that Britain currently
hands over many more suspects to other countries than it receives to face
justice here.

Other concerns include the length of time suspects can be held without trial in
some other EU countries and the apparently trivial offences for which British
police are asked to arrest people so that they can be sent abroad.

Ministers have been pressing for the warrant to be "reformed", amid signs that
it could be one of the measures that is eventually retained. The Lib Dems are
key supporters of the warrant.

Other measures among the scores from which Britain is expected to opt out
include DNA profiling and fingerprint checking, some co-operation on
cross-border crimes and plans for an EU-wide driving ban.

One plan Britain is particularly keen not to be part of is that of a
European-wide public prosecutor with sweeping powers of investigation and arrest
across member states.

Although some laws will remain after the "opt back in" process, Conservative
sources last night welcomed the symbolism of the announcement of a major opt-out
of EU Continued on Page 2

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 30, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New CBI boss backs Europe;
160 UK business leaders sign pro-EU 'manifesto' Meanwhile, separate poll reveals
call for referendum

BYLINE: KAMAL AHMED

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words


SIR MIKE RAKE, the new president of the CBI, has said that continued membership
of the European Union is "overwhelmingly" in the UK's economic interests ahead
of a new report backing EU membership signed by 160 chief executives and
business leaders.

In his first public comments on Europe since being made head of the business
lobby group, Sir Mike said that Britain would only prosper if David Cameron
fought to make the EU more liberal and completes a properly functioning single
market.

"As a global trading nation we want the rest of the world to play by an open and
enforceable set of rules," said Sir Mike, who is also the chairman of BT.

"Britain could call for that alone then watch as others made the decisions. Or,
as the EU's third-largest member, Britain can push the world's largest economic
bloc in a liberal direction.

"It would be deeply and unfortunately ironic if the UK were to consider leaving
the EU having just helped create a massive Euro-American trade area."

Sir Mike's comments come on the eve of a new report by the pro-European group,
Business for New Europe, of which he is a member.

Signed by 20 chief executives in the FTSE 100, 12 major British and global banks
based in London and a number of small and medium-sized businesses, the report
will call for reform of the EU to make it more business-friendly.

It will say that the Working Time Directive, which controls workers' hours,
should be overhauled; that the City should be supported as the world's financial
centre, and that the single market should be made a reality with fewer national
trade barriers.

But, in evidence that the business community is facing significant splits over
its attitude to Europe, this weekend, Business for Britain, which supports a
renegotiation of the UK's future in Europe, released the results of a poll
showing widespread support for an in/out referendum. The poll of 1,000 business
people found that 48pc supported holding a referendum with only 30pc opposing
the move.

Business for New Europe also revealed new supporters for its campaign. They
include Sir Rocco Forte, executive chairman of Rocco Forte Hotels, Tim Martin,
chairman of pub group JD Wetherspoon, and Charlie Mullins, managing director of
Pimlico Plumbers.

The group said the names were just some of 250 new business leaders who
supported the organisation. Matthew Elliott, chief executive of Business for
Britain, said: "It is clear that the business community wants a better deal from
the EU and a referendum to make sure the renegotiation will deliver on jobs and
growth in Britain.

"With more business leaders flocking to Business for Britain all the time, no
politician can seriously ignore the call from the business community for a full
and farreaching reform of our relationship with Brussels."

The battle between the two business groups to influence the Prime Minister
reveals increasing fears among both sides of the debate that the Government will
either go too far in trying to renegotiate with the EU and will lose influence
or will not force through enough changes.

"The Government's success in getting transatlantic trade talks off the ground at
the G8 in Loch Erne shows what we can gain through effective cooperation and
negotiation," said Sir Mike.

"This is true in Europe and globally.

"Government ministers have long been saying that businesses need to speak up for
these relationships. They are right, if we are not to see them undermined by a
rising tide of public disaffection with the European Union, and with global
institutions more generally."

He argued that countries such as Germany and the Netherlands supported more
liberal, growth-orientated reforms in Europe. Critics, though, are sceptical
that the EU will ever become truly pro-business and free markets.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 30, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

New CBI boss backs Europe;
160 UK business leaders sign pro-EU 'manifesto' Meanwhile, separate poll reveals
call for referendum

BYLINE: KAMAL AHMED

SECTION: BUSINESS;BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words


SIR MIKE RAKE, the new president of the CBI, has said that continued membership
of the European Union is "overwhelmingly" in the UK's economic interests ahead
of a new report backing EU membership signed by 160 chief executives and
business leaders.

In his first public comments on Europe since being made head of the business
lobby group, Sir Mike said that Britain would only prosper if David Cameron
fought to make the EU more liberal and completes a properly functioning single
market.

"As a global trading nation we want the rest of the world to play by an open and
enforceable set of rules," said Sir Mike, who is also the chairman of BT.

"Britain could call for that alone then watch as others made the decisions. Or,
as the EU's third-largest member, Britain can push the world's largest economic
bloc in a liberal direction.

"It would be deeply and unfortunately ironic if the UK were to consider leaving
the EU having just helped create a massive Euro-American trade area."

Sir Mike's comments come on the eve of a new report by the pro-European group,
Business for New Europe, of which he is a member.

Signed by 20 chief executives in the FTSE 100, 12 major British and global banks
based in London and a number of small and medium-sized businesses, the report
will call for reform of the EU to make it more business-friendly.

It will say that the Working Time Directive, which controls workers' hours,
should be overhauled; that the City should be supported as the world's financial
centre, and that the single market should be made a reality with fewer national
trade barriers.

But, in evidence that the business community is facing significant splits over
its attitude to Europe, this weekend, Business for Britain, which supports a
renegotiation of the UK's future in Europe, released the results of a poll
showing widespread support for an in/out referendum. The poll of 1,000 business
people found that 48pc supported holding a referendum with only 30pc opposing
the move.

Business for New Europe also revealed new supporters for its campaign. They
include Sir Rocco Forte, executive chairman of Rocco Forte Hotels, Tim Martin,
chairman of pub group JD Wetherspoon, and Charlie Mullins, managing director of
Pimlico Plumbers.

The group said the names were just some of 250 new business leaders who
supported the organisation. Matthew Elliott, chief executive of Business for
Britain, said: "It is clear that the business community wants a better deal from
the EU and a referendum to make sure the renegotiation will deliver on jobs and
growth in Britain.

"With more business leaders flocking to Business for Britain all the time, no
politician can seriously ignore the call from the business community for a full
and farreaching reform of our relationship with Brussels."

The battle between the two business groups to influence the Prime Minister
reveals increasing fears among both sides of the debate that the Government will
either go too far in trying to renegotiate with the EU and will lose influence
or will not force through enough changes.

"The Government's success in getting transatlantic trade talks off the ground at
the G8 in Loch Erne shows what we can gain through effective cooperation and
negotiation," said Sir Mike.

"This is true in Europe and globally.

"Government ministers have long been saying that businesses need to speak up for
these relationships. They are right, if we are not to see them undermined by a
rising tide of public disaffection with the European Union, and with global
institutions more generally."

He argued that countries such as Germany and the Netherlands supported more
liberal, growth-orientated reforms in Europe. Critics, though, are sceptical
that the EU will ever become truly pro-business and free markets.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 30, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK TO COME

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 144 words


MONDAY Mark Carney becomes the new Governor of the Bank of England, succeeding
Sir Mervyn King, whose second five-year term has ended.

TUESDAY MEPs vote on whether to lift the parliamentary immunity of the French
far-Right leader Marine Le Pen. If they vote in favour Ms Le Pen could face
prosecution for "inciting religious hatred".

WEDNESDAY The Henley Royal Regatta rowing championship takes place. The first
regatta was held in 1839.

THURSDAY The second week of the Wimbledon Tennis Championships continues with
the women's semi-finals.

FRIDAY The House of Commons votes on the draft EU referendum Bill, introduced by
Conservative MP James Wharton. The Labour leader Ed Miliband is reportedly
asking his MPs not to vote.

SATURDAY The Rolling Stones headline the first of two festival shows in Hyde
Park almost 44 years to the day since they first performed in the park.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 23, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron's free-trade dream is destined to end in failure

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 681 words


Ever since Tony Blair used Britain's last G8 presidency in 2005 to proclaim his
intention to abolish poverty in Africa and halt climate change, we have known
that these gatherings are largely a matter of smoke and mirrors - just as we saw
from the way last week's charade in Northern Ireland was exploited to the hilt
by that "heir to Blair", David Cameron. This was nowhere more obvious than in
the impression he tried to convey that he was taking the lead in proposing a
historic "free-trade deal" between the USA and the EU. But all this called for
some rather severe correctives.

For a start, China and India might have had something to say about the BBC's
claim that this was a meeting of "the eight most powerful countries in the
world". Then it was not so much a "G8" as a "G8 plus Two", as we saw from the
prominent presence, alongside President Obama and the rest, of those two
spectres at the feast, Presidents José Manuel Barroso and Herman Van Rompuy of
the EU.

Third, and rather more significantly, Mr Cameron, as Prime Minister of the UK,
has no direct status in this deal at all, since trade is an exclusively EU
competence. The negotiations are to be conducted by Mr Barroso and the European
Commission, not by any mere member state.

Fourth, what is being proposed is not just an EU-US deal but something much
wider: between on one side, not just the EU but also the European Free Trade
Area (Efta), including Norway and, on the other, not just the US but also Canada
and Mexico, as members of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta).

Fifth, what is being proposed is not so much a "free-trade area" as a deal
allowing trade between the two groups of countries subject to the harmonising of
tens of thousands of regulations. This will require years of negotiations, which
will be so complex and intractable that a deal may never come off at all.

It is hard to conceive, for instance, that any agreement could be reached
between the powerful and highly protectionist farming lobbies on both sides. US
agribusiness would find it impossible to accede to the EU's strict animal
welfare rules. The EU, so suspicious of GM, will scarcely welcome a flood of
meat and cereal products made much cheaper by America's wholesale embrace of
genetic modification.

As bitter rivals in the world airline market, the US and European aviation
industries have long been embattled over their rival state-subsidy schemes, each
side claiming the other's to be illegal. EU manufacturers will not be enthused
by an influx of all those manufactured goods made competitive by much lower US
energy costs, thanks to shale gas. The list of issues on which negotiations
could founder goes on and on.

So the question that arises is why did all those politicians last week seem so
happy to see this deal given such a high profile? Mr Obama favours it because
analysis shows that the US would benefit much more from such a deal than the EU.
The EU's leaders like it because it offers diversion from the disaster being
inflicted on Europe's economies by the slowmotion train wreck of the euro. As
for Mr Cameron, he hopes that his grandstanding on the deal will help him to
spike Ukip's guns by insisting that we can only benefit from such an arrangement
if we remain in the EU.

But here, as so often when he talks about Britain's membership of the EU, he is
being disingenuous. He carefully obscures the fact that Britain could benefit
just as much from a deal by leaving the EU and rejoining the Efta. In his
desperation to keep us in the EU, he still relies on that threefold wishful
thinking by which he hopes to: a) win the next election; b) promise Eurosceptics
that he can then negotiate a new treaty between Britain and the EU within two
years; c) put this to a referendum in 2017.

Of these, a) is highly dubious; b) is out of the question - negotiating a new
treaty would, under the rules, take much longer than two years; and since c) is
dependent on b), this isn't going to happen either.

Mr Cameron's dreams can no more come true than did Mr Blair's dreams that he
could abolish poverty in Africa.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Four wise men? Herman Van Rompuy (left) and José Manuel Barroso (centre
right) of the EU, with President Obama and Mr Cameron
ANDREW WINNING

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 16, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Are we in, out, or just shaken all about?

BYLINE: IAIN MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1125 words


By now, the British car industry was supposed to be extinct. At the turn of the
century, the Europhiles who sought the abolition of the pound were issuing dire
warnings about what would happen to the economy if the UK did not join the
single currency. It was said that millions of jobs were at risk, the City would
be all but closed down, industry would be starved of investment, and
multinationals, including car manufacturers based here, would run screaming for
the safety of mainland Europe.

Those who questioned these assertions were branded lunatics. There was much
Establishment smugness and bien pensant posturing. Lord Mandelson - then plain
Peter - said: "If we stay out, the price we will pay in lost investment and jobs
would be incalculable."

More than a decade later, the car industry seems to be fine. In fact, it is
roaring ahead. More than 1.5 million cars were made in the UK last year; last
week, Tim Abbot, BMW's managing director of UK operations, said that the country
is on track to overtake France and, by 2018, will become the second-largest car
maker in Europe. Staying out of the euro turns out to have been a very good idea
indeed.

Despite such cheering evidence, a few hardcore eurofanatics are still at it.
Last week, Will Hutton, the Leftwing economist, wrote: "If only we had joined
the euro." Apparently, it would have meant a much stronger banking system, no
crazy credit boom and Tony Blair's re-election for a fourth term.

Meanwhile, back on Planet Earth, the reality is that, had Britain joined the
single currency, there would probably have been even more cheap money as a
result of lower interest rates, a bigger credit bubble and an even messier
denouement in the financial meltdown of 2008 and the euro crisis that followed.

Having been proven spectacularly wrong on this, the remaining Europhiles -
including veterans such as Ken Clarke - have simply changed the terms of
reference. Shifting shamelessly from apocalyptic warnings about the horrors that
would befall Britain if it didn't join the euro, they now issue apocalyptic
warnings about the horrors that will befall Britain if it leaves the EU.

Of course, it is difficult to take these latest predictions of doom seriously.
And yet, just because Mr Clarke and his friends were wrong last time, it does
not hold that they will automatically be wrong this time. The "better off out"
crowd assert that quitting the EU would have no adverse consequences at all,
instead bringing an abundance of wonderful benefits. They sound just as certain
about this as Mr Clarke and Lord Heseltine do on the other side.

Who to believe? A lot of the argument around leaving the EU consists of
assertion, because the situation is hypothetical and the facts are contested.
Even allowing for that, those who take absolutist positions are particularly
reliant on the contention that they know beyond doubt what would happen. They
cannot possibly know.

And what about the electorate? For many voters, the European question - if they
think about it at all - is finely balanced. The EU is not popular, and perhaps a
majority would vote to leave if given the chance. But some elements of
membership, such as free movement of people (as long as it is Britons freely
moving between other countries), are popular.

This leaves the two main parties in a serious bind. There is an entertaining
Ukip insurgency under way - driven by an anti-politics feeling, declining living
standards and, to some extent, the EU - to which they, particularly the Tories,
must respond. Yet, according to the polls, as much as 85 per cent of the
electorate is not buying what Nigel Farage is selling, even if many might be
persuaded to bail out of the EU in several years' time.

So how might the Tory and Labour leaderships demonstrate that they understand
the anger of a portion of the public, without alienating moderates? Their
frantic machinations on the EU since Christmas can be explained in part by their
attempts to deal with this difficult situation.

David Cameron should be in the strongest position. His approach - attempt a
renegotiation with the EU, then put the results to the test in an In/Out
referendum - may not satisfy those who want to leave immediately, but it does
have the advantage of reasonableness. Those who do not like the result of the
renegotiation can vote to get out.

Unfortunately for the Tory leader, so much damage has been done to internal
relations by the modernising clique's serial rudeness over the years that
Conservative activists have defected to Ukip by the busload. This year, Mr
Cameron has ended up with the right policy on Europe, very late.

Ed Miliband's predicament is different. Labour has opted to abstain on the
looming private member's Bill in the Commons, with the whips telling MPs that it
is really not that big a deal. Yet the Bill will lay down a marker for a future
referendum on EU membership. The truth is that Miliband's attempt at insouciance
is designed to obscure a significant split in the shadow cabinet.

The shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, is instinctively Eurosceptic on economic
matters. As an adviser to Gordon Brown, he encouraged his boss to block British
membership of the euro. Now he and his supporters worry that if Labour refuses
at the next election to offer a referendum, the party will be mocked by its
opponents as anti-democratic.

In contrast, the shadow foreign secretary, Douglas Alexander, believes a
referendum would be dangerous. If there is a Labour government, it could become
an outlet for an enormous protest vote. In such circumstances the plebs might
(oh, the horror) vote to get out. Mr Miliband sits somewhere in the middle
between Mr Balls and Mr Alexander, wondering what to do.

It is a testament to the extraordinary campaigning skills and hard work of Mr
Farage that the two big parties are being forced to devote so much attention to
this issue. The Ukip leader has dedicated his adult life - between pints - to
getting the UK out of the EU, and now the Tories are offering an In/Out
referendum and Labour is under pressure to follow.

Whether or not Farage's ultimate goal is the right one (I am for renegotiation
in good faith and would consider voting to leave), it becomes ever clearer that
Britain must soon settle the European question once and for all. The
interminable uncertainty about British membership of the EU is debilitating and
destabilising and, if it lasts another decade, will become exceedingly boring.
Let's decide one way or another whether we are to be in, out, or shaken all
about as a result of renegotiation. Then the country, business, all of us, can
get on with the rest of the century.

Janet Daley is away

Tories are defecting to Ukip, but most voters are not buying what Nigel Forage
is selling

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 16, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU vote points to Fox's comeback

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 201 words


LIAM FOX's chances of a return to the political front line have been given fresh
impetus after it emerged he will join David Cameron this week as a key backer of
moves to ensure that a referendum on Britain's European Union membership is held
by 2017.

The former defence secretary's name appears alongside those of the Prime
Minister and William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, on a list of 12 Conservative
"sponsors" of a Bill, enshrining the referendum plan in law, to be introduced
into Parliament on Wednesday.

The Tories are making the Bill into a trial of strength - insisting that their
MPs turn up for Commons debates on the measure, including a key second-reading
vote in July.

The party hopes to win a propaganda battle on the issue by insisting that only
the Conservatives can guarantee to offer an "in/out" referendum on Britain's EU
membership after the 2015 general election.

The presence of Dr Fox as a sponsor is significant, as he is a prominent
Eurosceptic and an influential figure on the party's Right wing.

Many MPs expect Dr Fox to be brought back in a government reshuffle, possibly as
chief whip.

He resigned in October 2011 over links to his unofficial adviser and best man,
Adam Werritty.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 9, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'QE is socialism. It should be illegal'

BYLINE: RICHARD EVANS

SECTION: MONEY;FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 270 words


QUANTITATIVE EASING is akin to socialism because it robs savers in order to
rescue undeserving borrowers, a highly regarded fund manager has said.

Jason Pidcock, who runs the Newton Asian Income fund, said QE amounted to "a
redistribution of wealth" and was "a very unfair way of stealing money from
savers and giving it to borrowers".

"It is very statist," he said, adding that printing money "distorts economic
incentives".

"Deliberately debasing the currency is absolutely disgraceful. I agree with US
critics who have likened it to treason," Mr Pidcock said.

QE helps borrowers by eroding the real value of their debts through inflation
but Mr Pidcock said the alternative, a period of deflation as economies adjusted
to the financial crisis, was preferable.

"There have been periods in history when economic growth has coincided with
deflation," he said.

In an outspoken address to journalists on Wednesday, he also attacked the EU,
likening it to the former Soviet Union.

"The European Soviet Union is a disaster," Mr Pidcock said. "Let's hope that
within five years we will be out of it." The Conservatives have said they will
seek a renegotiation of Britain's relationship with the EU, followed by an
"in/out" referendum, if they win the next election.

"EU laws are like an octopus - it wants to get involved in everything," Mr
Pidcock said. He described the organisation as "rotten to the core".

Mr Pidcock said a British exit would be "very good" for the economy. "Fears that
jobs would be lost are a red herring. The World Trade Organisation's rules would
ensure that we could keep trading with EU countries." RICHARD EVANS

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 9, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A welcome blast of common sense about the EU;
The Sunday Telegraph ESTABLISHED IN 1961

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 696 words


Thank heavens for a Cabinet minister such as Chris Grayling, who is prepared to
speak common sense about the European Union. In an interview with The Sunday
Telegraph, the Secretary of State for Justice talks frankly about the
potentially burdensome impact of proposals to bolster data-protection put
forward by the European Commission. What really matters right now to Britain -
and to all the countries in Europe - is the need to grow the economy. One thing
that threatens our recovery is the weight of regulation from the EU. Tying up
businesses in red tape makes it harder for them to expand and compete in the
global marketplace. New regulation is particularly unhelpful to start-ups and
small businesses, which lack the enormous personnel departments and cash
necessary to keep up with the latest demands from Brussels.

Therefore, Mr Grayling is absolutely right to highlight the dangers of the EU's
plans on data protection. The proposals may be well-intentioned - supporters say
that they will give consumers more control over how their data is used and bring
regulations up to date with technological changes - but the impact on the
British economy will only place more burdens on to business. In Mr Grayling's
opinion, this will cost jobs - something that he, understandably, calls "mad".

What the Justice Secretary is trying to do is to make sure that politicians and
the public understand the full cost of EU regulations, so that we can make an
informed choice about whether or not we sign up to them. The UK estimates that,
for Britain, the data-protection changes could amount to an extra expense for
businesses of £360million per year. An impact assessment for the Dutch economy
puts the price tag even higher - at (EURO)1.5billion. Acromas, a body that
speaks for insurers such as Saga, the AA and PrimeCare, warns that companies
will be forced to pass on these new costs to consumers in the form of more
expensive premiums. Mr Grayling and his European allies are arguing that any
changes that must take place should come in the form of an EU-wide directive
rather than regulation, giving member states more flexibility in how to
implement the law.

The European Commission's proposals indicate just how removed from reality that
body can be - an observation that is not just limited to the UK's Eurosceptic
Right. Several states have joined Britain in pushing against these proposals,
including Belgium and the Netherlands. Like the UK, they are rightly concerned
about a measure that will hinder growth in a continent overshadowed by the dark
cloud of unemployment. More than 7.5 million Europeans aged 15 to 24 are not in
work, education or training - a rate that is double that of adults. In Spain, 55
per cent of the youth are unemployed; in Greece it is 59 per cent. Without jobs,
young people despair for their futures, and their countries risk sliding into
social unrest. As the Tory MP Chris Heaton-Harris warns in this paper, there is
a risk that next year's elections for the European Parliament could see a rise
in the representation of nationalists and extremists. This is worrying.

The European project itself is threatened by the Commission's failure to
identify the right priorities for the economy. Therefore, it is good to see that
some of the more Eurosceptic members of the Conservative Party are willing to
air their concerns in public. Last month, Cabinet ministers Michael Gove and
Philip Hammond both said that if a referendum on continued membership of the EU
were held tomorrow, they would vote to leave. Both emphasised the importance of
a change in Britain's relationship with Brussels.

If the UK is to remain in the EU it must be on terms that satisfy the British
people's desire for democratic accountability, and help, rather than hinder, the
growth of our economy. This is what really matters. Indeed, the data-protection
debate is a timely reminder of David Cameron's welcome pledge to renegotiate the
terms of our relationship with the EU - a reminder, too, of the necessity of
getting those negotiations right and completed as soon as possible.

"Ms Grayling is absolutely right to highlight the dangers of the plans on data
protection

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 9, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Minister attacks EU jobs 'madness';
Tories seek EU talks in London

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY; ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 1250 words


A SENIOR CABINET minister has launched an outspoken attack on the "mad" policy
agenda of the European Commission, accusing it of putting jobs and growth at
risk.

Chris Grayling, the Justice Secretary, spoke out over plans to reform data
protection laws, which Whitehall estimates will cost businesses hundreds of
millions of pounds.

He said the laws were evidence that Brussels' officials were "not living in the
real world". He described them as examples of the work of people "completely
oblivious to the potential consequences of what they are doing".

Mr Grayling's intervention is the most strongly-worded attack on Europe yet by
such a senior government member.

It will delight the Conservative Party's Eurosceptic MPs, but inflame tensions
with the Liberal Democrats and provoke ire in Brussels. The Justice Secretary
spoke out as Tory MPs sought an acceleration of moves towards demanding more
powers back from Europe.

Mr Grayling accused the European Commission of producing ever more complex laws
and pursuing a "mad" policy agenda that risks leaving British and European
companies unable to compete with their global rivals.

"It's become obvious that many senior people in Brussels are simply not living
in the real world," Mr Grayling declares in an interview with The Sunday
Telegraph.

"They are caught up in a dogma that says the solution to every problem is more
European regulation." Tory MPs have also warned that the commission's
"out-of-touch" approach at a time of high unemployment in the EU risks fuelling
the rise of extremist and nationalist political parties across the Continent.

Mr Grayling's attack is the latest example of a Tory Eurosceptic Cabinet
minister flexing his muscles. Last month, in moves that greatly annoyed David
Cameron, Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence
Secretary, said they would vote to leave the EU if an in/out referendum were
held now.

The Justice Secretary's comments follow the latest chapter in a long-running row
over moves by Brussels to reform data protection laws for the first time since
1995.

Critics of the plans, including Britain, the Netherlands and Belgium, warn that
small and medium-sized businesses will be particularly hit because they will
have to do much more to monitor, track and manage the data they hold.

A government "impact assessment" of the likely effect of the plan suggested
British businesses would face extra costs of about £360million a year. The Dutch
government said last week its own assessment was that its country's employers
faced increased bills of £1.2billion, suggesting that the cost to Britain could
be much higher.

There is concern that the new rules would affect those who start up businesses
from their home, and even people who launch charitable campaigns on social media
sites such as Facebook.

Insurance leaders have warned that premiums could increase by up to five per
cent as a result of the extra burden on their industry.

Mr Grayling, an influential figure on the Tory Right, said: "This is a prime
example of European legislation which will evidently have an impact on the
competitiveness of Europe and will impact on employment in Europe at a time when
we have really very serious levels of unemployment in the EU.

"They all too often seem completely oblivious to the potential consequences of
what they are doing.

"Britain and Europe are in a global race. UK and EU business are fighting
through dif-ficult times to be able to keep up employment levels and win
business around the world.

"If the EU keeps on trying to produce more and more complex laws that put more
and more costs on to business, it's just going to cost jobs, and that would be
mad.

"The people bringing forward proposals at the moment seem to have little idea of
the reality of the political and democratic challenges."

Unemployment in the 27-nation EU averages about 11 per cent, compared with 7.5
per cent in the United States.

In Britain it is 7.8 per cent, but in Greece some 27 per cent of the workforce
does not have a job while in Spain the proportion is 26.8 per cent, and youth
unemployment is above 50 per cent.

The row over jobs and regulation follows a separate con-flict between Britain
and Brussels last week over the commission's attempt to give unemployed
immigrants more rights to claim benefits.

Iain Duncan Smith, the Work and Pensions Secretary, promised to "fight every
step of the way" after Brussels said it would sue Britain for requiring EU
immigrants to pass an extra test before claiming.

Mr Grayling believes the benefit tourism battle is another "prime example" of
how Brussels is "more and more divorced from the political challenges member
states face".

Many Conservatives believe policy in the commission is being dictated by
internal politics before a new round of appointments next year.

Chris Heaton-Harris, a co-founder of the Eurosceptic Fresh Start group of MPs,
said: "There's a tendency now in Brussels to focus on more 'European' measures
being put forward because member states and officials are jockeying for position
ahead of a new round of commissioner appointments next year."

Mr Grayling also urges Conservatives to redouble their political fight not to
let Labour back into government.

He warns: "We can't let Ed Miliband and Ed Balls, the political heirs of Gordon
Brown, the man who signed the disastrous Lisbon Treaty, back into Downing
Street. They would pursue the same strategy of supporting more and more
'Europeanisation' of our laws."

As the row intensifies, The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that Tory ministers and
MPs want to start renegotiating Britain's terms of EU membership with other
nations later this summer - earlier than Mr Cameron planned.

The group of Tories wants London to host a series of international "summits"
attended by EU politicians, businessmen and lawyers to discuss how to repatriate
powers from Brussels.

MPs calling for the conferences include Greg Barker, the minister of state for
energy and climate change, and Sajid Javid, the economic secretary to the
Treasury. Others Tory MPs who support the plan include Kwasi Kwarteng, Andrea
Leadsom, Margot James and Nadhim Zahawi, all leading backbenchers. Mr Cameron
was made aware of the plan last week and has raised no objections to the
conferences.

The conference delegates would seek common ground on which types of employment,
financial and other EU regulations they will try to change.

Lord Young, the former Cabinet minister who is one of the Prime Minister's
advisers on enterprise, has been proposed as a chairman of the London gathering.

George Freeman, the Norfolk MP leading the call for the conferences, said they
would support Mr Cameron's aim to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the
rest of Europe.

Mr Cameron has promised an "in/out" referendum on Britain's EU membership, after
the renegotiation, to be held before the end of 2017. Mr Freeman said: "If we
can build coalitions with other countries and their politicians and business
leaders in the run-up to the Prime Minister's renegotiations, it will only
strengthen his hand.

"This way it will not be Britain negotiating against 26 other members of the
European Union - but perhaps 12 against 14."

Mr Freeman also said such summits would "shoot Ukip's fox", by showing that
Conservative politicians were serious about a referendum.

Although those leading the push for the meetings are currently being led by
Cameron loyalists, it is expected that Eurosceptics on the Right of the party
would also support the plan.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EU flag: Tories want reform

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 9, 2013
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Minister attacks EU jobs 'madness';
Exclusive: Grayling accuses officials of 'not living in the real world' in row
over data laws Tories seek EU talks in London

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY; ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words


A SENIOR CABINET minister has launched an outspoken attack on the "mad" policy
agenda of the European Commission, accusing it of putting jobs and growth at
risk.

Chris Grayling, the Justice Secretary, spoke out over plans to reform data
protection laws, which Whitehall estimates will cost businesses hundreds of
millions of pounds.

He said the laws were evidence that Brussels' officials were "not living in the
real world". He described them as examples of the work of people "completely
oblivious to the potential consequences of what they are doing".

Mr Grayling's intervention is the most strongly-worded attack on Europe yet by
such a senior government member.

It will delight the Conservative Party's Eurosceptic MPs, but inflame tensions
with the Liberal Democrats and provoke ire in Brussels. The Justice Secretary
spoke out as Tory MPs sought an acceleration of moves towards demanding more
powers back from Europe.

Mr Grayling accused the European Commission of producing ever more complex laws
and pursuing a "mad" policy agenda that risks leaving British and European
companies unable to compete with their global rivals.

"It's become obvious that many senior people in Brussels are simply not living
in the real world," Mr Grayling declares in an interview with The Sunday
Telegraph.

"They are caught up in a dogma that says the solution to every problem is more
European regulation." Tory MPs have also warned that the commission's
"out-of-touch" approach at a time of high unemployment in the EU risks fuelling
the rise of extremist and nationalist political parties across the Continent.

Mr Grayling's attack is the latest example of a Tory Eurosceptic Cabinet
minister flexing his muscles. Last month, in moves that greatly annoyed David
Cameron, Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence
Secretary, said they would vote to leave the EU if an in/out referendum were
held now.

The Justice Secretary's comments follow the latest chapter in a long-running row
over moves by Brussels to reform data protection laws for the first time since
1995.

Critics of the plans, including Britain, the Netherlands and Belgium, warn that
small and medium-sized businesses will be particularly hit because they will
have to do much more to monitor, track and manage the data they hold.

A government "impact assessment" of the likely effect of the plan suggested
British businesses would face extra costs of about £360million a year. The Dutch
government said last week its own assessment was that its country's employers
faced increased bills of £1.2billion, suggesting that the cost to Britain could
be much higher.

There is concern that the new rules would affect those who start up businesses
from their home, and even people who launch charitable campaigns on social media
sites such as Facebook.

Insurance leaders have warned that premiums could increase by up to five per
cent as a result of the extra burden on their industry.

Mr Grayling, an influential figure on the Tory Right, said: "This is a prime
example of European legislation which will evidently have an impact on the
competitiveness of Europe and will impact on employment in Europe at a time when
we have really very serious levels of unemployment in the EU.

"They all too often seem completely oblivious to the potential consequences of
what they are doing.

"Britain and Europe are in a global race. UK and EU business are fighting
through difficult times to be able to keep up employment levels and win business
around the world.

"If the EU keeps on trying to produce more and more complex laws that put more
and more costs on to business, it's just going to cost jobs, and that would be
mad.

"The people bringing forward proposals at the moment seem to have little idea of
the reality of the political and democratic challenges."

Unemployment in the 27-nation EU averages about 11 per cent, compared with 7.5
per cent in the United States.

In Britain it is 7.8 per cent, but in Greece some 27 per cent of the workforce
does not have a job while in Spain the proportion is 26.8 per cent, and youth
unemployment is above 50 per cent.

The row over jobs and regulation follows a separate con-flict between Britain
and Brussels last week over the commission's attempt to give unemployed
immigrants more rights to claim benefits.

Iain Duncan Smith, the Work and Pensions Secretary, promised to "fight every
step of the way" after Brussels said it would sue Britain for requiring EU
immigrants to pass an extra test before claiming.

Mr Grayling believes the benefit tourism battle is another "prime example" of
how Brussels is "more and more divorced from the political challenges member
states face".

Many Conservatives believe policy in the commission. is being dictated by
internal politics before a new round of appointments next year.

Chris Heaton-Harris, a co-founder of the Eurosceptic Fresh Start group of MPs,
said: "There's a tendency now in Brussels to focus on more 'European' measures
being put forward because member states and officials are jockeying for position
ahead of a new round of commission.er appointments next year."

Mr Grayling also urges Conservatives to redouble their political fight not to
let Labour back into government .

He warns: "We can't let Ed Miliband and Ed Balls, the political heirs of Gordon
Brown, the man who signed the disastrous Lisbon Treaty, back into Downing
Street. They would pursue the same strategy of supporting more and more
'Europeanisation' of our laws."

As the row intensifies, The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that Tory ministers and
MPs want to start renegotiating Britain's terms of EU membership with other
nations later this summer - earlier than Mr Cameron planned.

The group of Tories wants London to host a series of international "summits"
attended by EU politicians, businessmen and lawyers to discuss how to repatriate
powers from Brussels.

MPs calling for the conferences include Greg Barker, the minister of state for
energy and climate change, and Sajid Javid, the economic secretary to the
Treasury. Others Tory MPs who support the plan include Kwasi Kwarteng, Andrea
Leadsom, Margot James and Nadhim Zahawi, all leading backbenchers. Mr Cameron
was made aware of the plan last week and has raised no objections to the
conferences.

The conference delegates would seek common ground on which types of employment,
financial and other EU regulations they will try to change.

Lord Young, the former Cabinet minister who is one of the Prime Minister's
advisers on enterprise, has been proposed as a chairman of the London gathering.

George Freeman, the Norfolk MP leading the call for the conferences, said they
would support Mr Cameron's aim to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the
rest of Europe.

Mr Cameron has promised an "in/out" referendum on Britain's EU membership, after
the renegotiation, to be held before the end of 2017. Mr Freeman said: "If we
can build coalitions with other countries and their politicians and business
leaders in the run-up to the Prime Minister's renegotiations, it will only
strengthen hish and .

"This way it will not be Britain negotiating against 26 other members of the
European Union - but perhaps 12 against 14."

Mr Freeman also said such summits would "shoot Ukip's fox", by showing that
Conservative politicians were serious about a referendum .

Although those leading the push for the meetings are currently being led by
Cameron loyalists, it is expected that Eurosceptics on the Right of the party
would also support the plan.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EU flag: Tories want reform

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 2, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Can Britain prosper by closing the door on its EU partners?;
As the debate on the UK's relationship with Brussels rages, Sir Andrew Cahn
insists the EU safeguards peace and helps make Britain competitive, while Lord
Kalms explains why the business community believes further integration would be
a mistake

BYLINE: Andrew Cahn; Lord Kalms

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1681 words


PRO EUROPE

My father left Germany hastily in 1933. Overnight, he went from being a secure
child in a wealthy family to a refugee without a state. Unwisely, as it turned
out, his family went to Spain and were suddenly subsumed by its civil war.

He left Barcelona in 1938 for London, but in 1940, he was on the move again as
he left the capital for the countryside just as the Blitz was starting.
Meanwhile, his future wife had been sent to Canada for her own safety.

The volatility of my parents' lives meant that I grew up aware that peace,
stability and a secure society are not givens, nor can they be assumed - or even
expected. They have to be worked for and won in every generation.

Recently, nationalism and populism have been increasing in many European Union
countries. The rising political parties do not talk of war, and I am sure they
have no wish for it.

But what they do talk about - a dislike of foreigners in their country,
glorifying the nation state and its history as better and bolder and more
virtuous than other countries, blaming others for national failings, grievances
against neighbouring states - are the things which can lead nations into war.

Yet we are often told that it is inconceivable that European countries would
fight among themselves. Indeed, those who disparage the EU tend to take its
peace for granted, or say it has little to do with the EU.

It is surprising how short memories can be. Croatia, about to join the EU, was
at war a few years ago, and the Balkan states have experienced much of the
unpredictability that characterised the 1930s and 1940s. That is why they want
to join the EU. A supranational authority, with a culture of interchange of
peoples and goods and values, is a surer guarantor of peace than any number of
politicians assuring us that they have peaceful intentions.

Institutional structures are better than passing political policies as a route
to keeping the peace. Britain is safer because of the EU.

Not only is EU peace taken for granted, but so is the prosperity it has
generated. In Britain, for example, many now see the eurozone as a burden on the
economy, arguing that we would be more prosperous outside it. It is difficult to
understand this argument.

Why does free access to a huge market hold us back? How is the EU's worldwide
network of free trade agreements a drag anchor on British trade?

Britain has not found it easy to penetrate emerging markets, and we have been
less effective in doing so than our continental counterparts. We will not
suddenly find that their doors open to us just because we have left the EU.

Much of the West is going through recession or low growth, which does not mean
that the prosperity of the past and the potential for the future within the EU
is an illusion. Instead, the illusion is to think that splendid isolation in a
global world is actually a workable strategy.

Thirdly, we need to demonstrate that underpinning peace and prosperity are
culture and values. It is these, above all else, which nationalists argue the EU
is threatening. But in fact the opposite is true.

The EU helps the UK to strengthen its culture as a global, sophisticated, open,
trading nation. The City of London changed from being an airless, old boys' club
to being a global powerhouse because foreigners flooded in with new energy, new
ideas and a new openness.

Just as it is true that contities nental Europe shares responsibility with
Anglo-Saxon capitalism for the financial crisis, so it is true that the
resolution of it and policies to avoid a repetition will be made in the EU and
not just in London.

Think how the culture of the British energy and water supply industries changed
because of continental ownership. The same is on offer for many other
industries. Even more important than corporate culture, or social habits, are
values. These comprise attitudes, lifestyle, opportuni-and more. The EU provides
the framework within which our society has changed out of all recognition over
the past 50 years.

If you can eat well in London, if you can find world-beating music, dance,
design and film, it is in part because young Europeans full of vitality, ideas
and talent come to our country to make a living and do something exciting.

The flow of people, capital, opinions and energy from our EU partners has helped
to make us cosmopolitan, sophisticated and competitive in a global marketplace.
An isolated Britain did not make this happen.

Critics of the EU see it all differently of course. Release us from the shackles
of the EU and our independent culture, values, self-image and prosperity will
all flower, they say.

But we live in an interconnected world, one where Little England or Imperial
Britain has no place.

Closing our doors, our shores and our minds to the Continent's efforts to design
the future will marginalise us. And that is the final benefit of the EU for the
UK - it is a political structure which involves us in designing the future of
our region.

When we have a referendum, I hope the British people will take their decision
not just on economic grounds, though the prosperity case for staying in is
overwhelming. Of course, we could survive outside, though I doubt we would
thrive. But there is a moral need to stay in there. Britain has been a leader in
Europe for centuries. We should not relegate ourselves to camp follower. It is
the sceptics who lack ambition for Britain.

Sir Andrew Cahn is vice-chairman, public policy, of Nomura and a member of the
World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Europe

ANTI EUROPE

The European Union is no longer fit for purpose. Like Michael Gove and Philip
Hammond, if there were a referendum held tomorrow I would vote to leave. But it
isn't up to me, or our more free-thinking Cabinet ministers, and nor should it
be. The British people deserve a referendum on our continued relationship with
Brussels and, the way the politics is going on this issue, we should get one.

In the meantime we need a proper debate about how Britain and the EU interacts.
This is why, along with 500 other business leaders, I put my name to the
Business for Britain campaign for a national drive to renegotiate the terms of
Britain's membership of the EU.

Just as it was over 10 years ago, when a few of us founded Business for Sterling
from my office and it was the business community making the strongest case for
staying clear of the euro, so it is today that business must tell the country
about why it's imperative that we get a better deal from the EU; for jobs, for
growth, for Britain.

I was proud to serve as Treasurer of the Conservative Party, and I have been
dismayed to watch as party members have been driven from the fold while we
sidestep and skirt around the critical issue of Europe. Similarly, the majority
of the business community is no longer content to sit on the sidelines while the
debate is overtaken by party political opinions.

While some would like you to believe that there has been too much "banging on"
about the issue; the real problem is rather that the Government hasn't been
making the necessary noise in this area. We can't wait until after 2015 to
outline our red lines for the renegotiations. Like Boris Johnson, I'd like to
see the EU taken back to a trading relationship that promotes rather than
inhibits commerce with the rest of the world.

At this crucial juncture, when the eurozone is still in crisis and EU
institutions are publishing plans for further integration, there is no better
time for the Prime Minister to put some meat on the bones of his vision for
Britain's relationship with the EU. I'm tired of hearing that we harm our
position by showing our hand in advance. When you want to do a deal, you go in
and set out your terms, you don't meekly declare an interest and then stay
schtum for four years.

Those on the wrong side of this debate would have you believe that the main
change needed is to deepen the single market, thereby boosting the
competitiveness of Britain and Europe as a whole. That this should be their only
means of achieving that end is narrowminded and unimaginative.

Seeking further harmonisation when the "one size fits all" approach to
regulation has done so much to prolong the economic crisis, would be just
another example of the EU sticking its fingers in its ears in the pursuit of an
outdated philosophy. Similarly, it's time Brussels acknowledged that "ever
closer union" is not in the interest of all EU member states.

The make-up of business and industry varies hugely across member states, so
there must be a more effective mechanism for national governments to stand up
for their own interests when EU regulation will impact on a particular sector.

Equally, national parliaments - which are naturally better placed to represent
the concerns of their home-grown industries - need to be far closer to EU
decision-making, rather than handing the reins to unelected civil servants and
MEPs. And if there are laws written in Strasbourg that will harm the UK, the
Government should have a red card so that the Continent can get on with harming
its economic progress but the UK can stay well clear.

In Britain, the debate on the EU - as it was on the euro - has all too often
been hijacked by a small clique of self-interested observers. What Business for
Britain is doing, as we did in Business for Sterling back in the 1990s, is push
authentic business voices to the fore and let people hear the real problems that
the EU is responsible for.

When I joined my father in our first Dixons store in Southend in 1948, we would
have welcomed with open arms anything that would keep the nations of Europe from
fighting. In the short term, the EU and its predecessors achieved just that.
Today, however, the EU is the cause of more unrest and infighting than it
solves. It's time for a change - either Brussels makes it, or we do.

Lord Kalms is life president of Dixons plc and signatory to Business for Britain

Not only is EU peace taken for granted, but so is the prosperity it has
generated

It's time Brussels acknowledged that 'ever closer union'is not in the interest
of all member states

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Andrew said there is a moral and economic need to stay in the EU
It has been argued that structures such as the EU are better than political
policies at keeping the peace Lord Kalms said the debate had been hijacked by
self-interested observers
ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 2, 2013
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Can Britain prosper by closing the door on its EU partners?;
As the debate on the UK's relationship with Brussels rages, Sir Andrew Cahn
insists the EU safeguards peace and helps make Britain competitive, while Lord
Kalms explains why the business community believes further integration would be
a mistake

BYLINE: Andrew Cahn; Lord Kalms

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1651 words


PRO EUROPE

My father left Germany hastily in 1933. Overnight, he went from being a secure
child in a wealthy family to a refugee without a state. Unwisely, as it turned
out, his family went to Spain and were suddenly subsumed by its civil war.

He left Barcelona in 1938 for London, but in 1940, he was on the move again as
he left the capital for the countryside just as the Blitz was starting.
Meanwhile, his future wife had been sent to Canada for her own safety.

The volatility of my parents' lives meant that I grew up aware that peace,
stability and a secure society are not givens, nor can they be assumed - or even
expected. They have to be worked for and won in every generation.

Recently, nationalism and populism have been increasing in many European Union
countries. The rising political parties do not talk of war, and I am sure they
have no wish for it.

But what they do talk about - a dislike of foreigners in their country,
glorifying the nation state and its history as better and bolder and more
virtuous than other countries, blaming others for national failings, grievances
against neighbouring states - are the things which can lead nations into war.

Yet we are often told that it is inconceivable that European countries would
fight among themselves. Indeed, those who disparage the EU tend to take its
peace for granted, or say it has little to do with the EU.

It is surprising how short memories can be. Croatia, about to join the EU, was
at war a few years ago, and the Balkan states have experienced much of the
unpredictability that characterised the 1930s and 1940s. That is why they want
to join the EU. A supranational authority, with a culture of interchange of
peoples and goods and values, is a surer guarantor of peace than any number of
politicians assuring us that they have peaceful intentions.

Institutional structures are better than passing political policies as a route
to keeping the peace. Britain is safer because of the EU.

Not only is EU peace taken for granted, but so is the prosperity it has
generated. In Britain, for example, many now see the eurozone as a burden on the
economy, arguing that we would be more prosperous outside it. It is difficult to
understand this argument.

Why does free access to a huge market hold us back? How is the EU's worldwide
network of free trade agreements a drag anchor on British trade?

Britain has not found it easy to penetrate emerging markets, and we have been
less effective in doing so than our continental counterparts. We will not
suddenly find that their doors open to us just because we have left the EU.

Much of the West is going through recession or low growth, which does not mean
that the prosperity of the past and the potential for the future within the EU
is an illusion. Instead, the illusion is to think that splendid isolation in a
global world is actually a workable strategy.

Thirdly, we need to demonstrate that underpinning peace and prosperity are
culture and values. It is these, above all else, which nationalists argue the EU
is threatening. But in fact the opposite is true.

The EU helps the UK to strengthen its culture as a global, sophisticated, open,
trading nation. The City of London changed from being an airless, old boys' club
to being a global powerhouse because foreigners flooded in with new energy, new
ideas and a new openness.

Just as it is true that contities nental Europe shares responsibility with
Anglo-Saxon capitalism for the financial crisis, so it is true that the
resolution of it and policies to avoid a repetition will be made in the EU and
not just in London.

Think how the culture of the British energy and water supply industries changed
because of continental ownership. The same is on offer for many other
industries. Even more important than corporate culture, or social habits, are
values. These comprise attitudes, lifestyle, opportuni-and more. The EU provides
the framework within which our society has changed out of all recognition over
the past 50 years.

If you can eat well in London, if you can find world-beating music, dance,
design and film, it is in part because young Europeans full of vitality, ideas
and talent come to our country to make a living and do something exciting.

The flow of people, capital, opinions and energy from our EU partners has helped
to make us cosmopolitan, sophisticated and competitive in a global marketplace.
An isolated Britain did not make this happen.

Critics of the EU see it all differently of course. Release us from the shackles
of the EU and our independent culture, values, self-image and prosperity will
all flower, they say.

But we live in an interconnected world, one where Little England or Imperial
Britain has no place.

Closing our doors, our shores and our minds to the Continent's efforts to design
the future will marginalise us. And that is the final benefit of the EU for the
UK - it is a political structure which involves us in designing the future of
our region.

When we have a referendum, I hope the British people will take their decision
not just on economic grounds, though the prosperity case for staying in is
overwhelming. Of course, we could survive outside, though I doubt we would
thrive. But there is a moral need to stay in there. Britain has been a leader in
Europe for centuries. We should not relegate ourselves to camp follower. It is
the sceptics who lack ambition for Britain.

Sir Andrew Cahn is vice-chairman, public policy, of Nomura and a member of the
World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Europe

ANTI EUROPE

The European Union is no longer fit for purpose. Like Michael Gove and Philip
Hammond, if there were a referendum held tomorrow I would vote to leave. But it
isn't up to me, or our more free-thinking Cabinet ministers, and nor should it
be. The British people deserve a referendum on our continued relationship with
Brussels and, the way the politics is going on this issue, we should get one.

In the meantime we need a proper debate about how Britain and the EU interacts.
This is why, along with 500 other business leaders, I put my name to the
Business for Britain campaign for a national drive to renegotiate the terms of
Britain's membership of the EU.

Just as it was over 10 years ago, when a few of us founded Business for Sterling
from my office and it was the business community making the strongest case for
staying clear of the euro, so it is today that business must tell the country
about why it's imperative that we get a better deal from the EU; for jobs, for
growth, for Britain.

I was proud to serve as Treasurer of the Conservative Party, and I have been
dismayed to watch as party members have been driven from the fold while we
sidestep and skirt around the critical issue of Europe. Similarly, the majority
of the business community is no longer content to sit on the sidelines while the
debate is overtaken by party political opinions.

While some would like you to believe that there has been too much "banging on"
about the issue; the real problem is rather that the Government hasn't been
making the necessary noise in this area. We can't wait until after 2015 to
outline our red lines for the renegotiations. Like Boris Johnson, I'd like to
see the EU taken back to a trading relationship that promotes rather than
inhibits commerce with the rest of the world.

At this crucial juncture, when the eurozone is still in crisis and EU
institutions are publishing plans for further integration, there is no better
time for the Prime Minister to put some meat on the bones of his vision for
Britain's relationship with the EU. I'm tired of hearing that we harm our
position by showing our hand in advance. When you want to do a deal, you go in
and set out your terms, you don't meekly declare an interest and then stay
schtum for four years.

Those on the wrong side of this debate would have you believe that the main
change needed is to deepen the single market, thereby boosting the
competitiveness of Britain and Europe as a whole. That this should be their only
means of achieving that end is narrowminded and unimaginative.

Seeking further harmonisation when the "one size fits all" approach to
regulation has done so much to prolong the economic crisis, would be just
another example of the EU sticking its fingers in its ears in the pursuit of an
outdated philosophy. Similarly, it's time Brussels acknowledged that "ever
closer union" is not in the interest of all EU member states.

The make-up of business and industry varies hugely across member states, so
there must be a more effective mechanism for national governments to stand up
for their own interests when EU regulation will impact on a particular sector.

Equally, national parliaments - which are naturally better placed to represent
the concerns of their home-grown industries - need to be far closer to EU
decision-making, rather than handing the reins to unelected civil servants and
MEPs. And if there are laws written in Strasbourg that will harm the UK, the
Government should have a red card so that the Continent can get on with harming
its economic progress but the UK can stay well clear.

In Britain, the debate on the EU - as it was on the euro - has all too often
been hijacked by a small clique of self-interested observers. What Business for
Britain is doing, as we did in Business for Sterling back in the 1990s, is push
authentic business voices to the fore and let people hear the real problems that
the EU is responsible for.

When I joined my father in our first Dixons store in Southend in 1948, we would
have welcomed with open arms anything that would keep the nations of Europe from
fighting. In the short term, the EU and its predecessors achieved just that.
Today, however, the EU is the cause of more unrest and infighting than it
solves. It's time for a change - either Brussels makes it, or we do.

Lord Kalms is life president of Dixons plc and signatory to Business for Britain

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Andrew said there is a moral and economic need to stay in the EU
It has been argued that structures such as the EU are better than political
policies at keeping the peace Lord Kalms said the debate had been hijacked by
self-interested observers
ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  June 2, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cracknell takes on the ultimate ordeal ... politics

BYLINE: PATRICK SAWER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 537 words


HE HAS WON two Olympic gold medals, rowed naked across the Atlantic and survived
a life-threatening cycling accident that left him brain injured.

Now James Cracknell is preparing for the ultimate challenge: entering the bear
pit of politics.

Cracknell will today announce at the Telegraph Hay Festival that he is standing
as the prospective Conservative candidate for the European Parliament for the
South West, in what will be the latest chapter in an extraordinarily varied
life.

He told The Sunday Telegraph that he was already anticipating the obvious
question from voters. "People will ask am I capable to do it after my accident,"
he said. "I ask myself that, but I don't want to live in a society where people
impose ceilings on you. We should not be setting ourselves those sorts of
limits.

"I just want to go for it and see it through. If I make a bad politician so be
it, but it could quite easily be that I would have made a bad politician before
the accident."

If he succeeds Cracknell will be following in the footsteps of that other famous
Olympian turned politician, Sebastian Coe, who won Gold in Moscow and Los
Angeles, before becoming the Conservative MP for Falmouth and going on to lead
the London 2012 Games.

Cracknell was hit from behind by a petrol tanker in July 2010, during an attempt
to cycle, row, run and swim from Los Angeles to New York in 16 days. The crash
left him with an injury to the frontal lobes of his brain, which govern
personality.

It has left him with epilepsy and dramatically altered personality - including
short temper, bouts of aggression and memory loss.

In 2012 Cracknell and his wife, Beverley Turner, wrote Touching Distance about
his life before and after his brain injury, chronicling their struggle to
overcome his physical and psychological injuries and rebuild their life.

Four years before his crash Cracknell captured the public imagination by rowing
across the Atlantic with Ben Fogle, the TV presenter and columnist for The
Sunday Telegraph.

The pair, who rowed 24 hours a day, in alternating two-hour shifts and had to
shed all their clothing to avoid chafing, finished the 2,931-mile course in 49
days, 19 hours and eight minutes. Cracknell had already won Olympic Gold medals
in the coxless fours, in Athens in 2004 and Sydney four years earlier.

Now he feels it is time to repay the support he has received from the public
over the years by arguing the case for a better deal for Britain in the EU.
Loyal to David Cameron, he says the Prime Minister should be backed in his bid
to negotiate new terms of membership, rather than forced to hold an early
referendum.

"If the negotiations don't work out I'm sure there will be a massive campaign
for a no, but until that happens we have to support him," he said.

Cracknell discussed his decision to seek election long and hard with his wife.
"My one fear is losing the right to privacy" he said. "But if you want the
system to change you have to be part of it. There's no point moaning from the
sidelines."

He points out that if there's one thing his CV proves, he has the required
tenacity. "Look at what I've done in the past," he said. "When I start something
I've got the ability and the determination to see it through."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Cracknell with his wife Beverley Turner, who is supporting his
attempt to become an MEP
DAVID FISHER/REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 26, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

David Cameron must stand up to the EU;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 381 words


SIR - With France as well as Britain in haste to introduce gay "marriage", a
cynic would suspect that the EU has somehow ordered such a redefinition of what
has been accepted for thousands of years.

With the Chancellor being outvoted and Britain now supinely acceding to
Brussels' demand for an additional £1.4 billion to the EU budget, it is no
wonder long-standing Tory supporters are losing all faith in David Cameron's
logic.

If the Marriage Bill is forced through then the Tories will deserve to be on the
opposition benches in the next parliament. Mr Cameron needs to show a bit of
backbone. Stating categorically that Britain will now deduct £1.4 billion from
our contribution to next year's EU coffers will ensure that he is listened to a
bit more carefully by the EU elite in the future.

B J Colby Portishead, Somerset

SIR - Re-negotiating our EU status is a non-starter, as the reinstatement of Mr
Cameron's much-vaunted budget cuts clearly shows. For all his professed
euro-scepticism, the impression remains that he would rather see Britain in the
EU under Labour than out, under the Conservatives.

Chris Jones Croydon, Surrey

SIR - The in/out EU referendum has become necessary, and most urgent, because of
the lack of persuasive debate from any of the established parties.

These parties only pretend to be different, arguing on smaller details, and
continue to mimic each other on foreign policy, defence, business, economics,
and even on education and health.

It is not Ukip that has only one policy, it is the established parties, who, in
claiming their so-called centre ground, appear to be afraid to discuss their
convictions or debate the rights and wrongs of any issue. And so they are left
with only one policy - to do exactly what the overseas government in Brussels
tells them.

Doug Knox Sunderland, Co Durham

SIR - David Cameron has lost the plot; his promise of a referendum is a sop to
defer facing the electorate as long as possible. He is a Europhile at heart, and
will continue to vacillate and squirm over this, as his past record shows.

Likewise, his determination to push through same-sex marriage legislation is
seen as further proof of his detachment from reality; having to rely on Labour's
support for this is truly demeaning.

Michael Zanker Glenfield, Leicestershire

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK exporters avoiding EU

BYLINE: JAMES QUINN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 275 words


BRITISH companies looking to export are opting for fastgrowing economies outside
the European Union and "side-stepping" the debate on an "in/out" referendum.

A survey by the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC) found that a growing number
of small and mediumsized businesses are focused on growing economies such as
Brazil and parts of Asia for future exports.

"There is a lot of enthusiasm for new markets," said John Longworth, BCC
director general. "And there's been a shift moving from EU countries towards new
markets, as well as a growing number of businesses who've never exported
side-stepping Europe altogether and looking further afield."

The survey of almost 4,700 BCC member companies found that while the EU remains
the most popular market, locations such as Asia, Central and South America and
Africa are becoming increasingly popular. The United Arab Emirates, Poland,
China and India are the most popular growth markets among current exporters.

Interestingly, some 32pc of businesses surveyed would consider exporting to
Brazil in the next five years, in addition to the 20pc of businesses that are
currently exporting there.

While the question of whether businesses wanted to be in or out of the EU was
covered in a recent BCC survey - almost 50pc wanted a renegotiation of the
existing terms - Mr Longworth pointed out that the UK has a large trade deficit
with the EU compared with a surplus with the rest of the world.

"We've got a strong negotiation position [in Europe]," he said.

Mr Longworth said the BCC is backing the Government's plan to open up a series
of UK chambers in overseas countries to help British exporters on the ground.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory self-harm over Europe has buried the 2ood news;
Once a party is seen to be split, to have turned inward, and to be indulging its
own priorities rather than addressing the anxieties of the electorate, it is
sunk

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1278 words


n his interview with The Sunday Telegraph today, William Hague makes it
powerfully clear that his Cabinet colleagues have had their collective ears
boxed (or perhaps, given their ministerial rank, red-boxed). Yes, Michael Gove
and Philip Hammond declared a week ago that, in a referendum held now, they
would vote for Britain's exit from the EU. But the Foreign Secretary is emphatic
that there'll be no more freelancing: "The rest of the Cabinet will not be
answering hypothetical questions."

Beneath that statement lurks the quiet menace of the Tory elder statesman (Hague
is only 52, but elder statesmen, like policemen, seem to be getting younger
these days). As a former Conservative leader and a Cabinet minister in John
Major's government, he knows from cruel experience how high is the cost of
disunity, or perceived disunity. Once a party is seen to be split, to have
turned inward, and to be indulging its own priorities rather than addressing the
primary anxieties of the electorate, it is sunk.

Hague's apparently straightforward remark signals the absolute determination of
the ruling Tory troika - Prime Minister, Chancellor, Foreign Secretary - to
restore order to their fractious tribe. Since his return from the United States,
Cameron has been telling close allies: "My strategy is clearing the
battlefield." He wants the controversy over same-sex marriage to be settled by
July. On Europe, he has thrown the weight of the Government behind a private
member's Bill demanding a referendum on Britain's relationship with the EU.
Though the proposals have notionally been framed as a private member's Bill,
brought forward by the Conservative MP for Stockton South, James Wharton, the
initiative, wording and whipping arrangements are all the work of Downing
Street. Given the constraints of the Coalition, there is little more that
Cameron can do to win over those Eurosceptics who still do not trust him.

As I have written before, the correct response to the Ukip surge is not
appeasement but to govern well. The whole point of Nigel Farage and co, and
their fellow travellers in the Tory party, is that they are unappeasable.
Cameron deserves credit for promising a referendum on Britain's membership of
the EU - the first since 1975 - not because it might win back Ukip-curious
voters, but because, in the great sweep of history, it is the right thing to do.

It doesn't help his case that one of his closest lieutenants, Lord Feldman, has
suddenly been embroiled in a row over remarks made last week at a private
dinner. According to reports yesterday, an unnamed close ally of the Prime
Minister described Tory association members as "mad, swivel-eyed loons" who were
urging their MPs to rebel over Europe and gay marriage. Abusive language of this
sort simply hardens opposition and nurtures resentment. Feldman, co-chairman of
the Conservative Party and a friend of Cameron's since Oxford, vigorously
insists that he did not deploy these toxic phrases. But the denials and
counterdenials that continued overnight have poisoned the already fraught
relationship between leadership and movement, and will make the return to the
Commons of the same-sex marriage Bill this week all the more of a challenge to
the PM, as he struggles to keep his party stuck together with Blu Tack, string
and staples.

As the main governing party practises collective self-harm, its junior partner
looks on aghast. As usual, Cameron and Nick Clegg have been in regular contact,
not least in the routine meetings of the Quad to discuss next month's spending
review. The Deputy Prime Minister was certainly taken aback by Gove's assertion
that he was stalling over the Coalition's child-care strategy to protect himself
from Vince Cable's ambitions to supplant him as leader. "The day that you rely
on Michael Gove for insight into what happens in the Liberal Democrats, you
really will be lost," said Clegg on Thursday. "Michael, who is a perfectly nice
chap, doesn't know the first thing. Of course, he knows a thing or two about
leadership ambitions, but that's a different matter."

Miaow. Catty remarks like this aside, what troubles the Lib Dems is the speed
and ferocity with which the Euro-shambles is tearing through Conservative ranks,
its destructive effect incomprehensible to a party for whom the EU seems
incontrovertibly lovely and welcoming. Clegg and the recently released Chris
Huhne were both MEPs before they became MPs; Simon Hughes, the party's deputy
leader, spent a year at the CollÈge d'Europe in Bruges and worked in Brussels
and Strasbourg before entering Parliament; Danny Alexander worked for the
European Movement and Britain in Europe.

In Andrew Adonis's fascinating new book on the Coalition's formation, 5 Days in
May, the extent of Clegg's uneasiness on this score in 2010 is laid bare. "I am
worried about the Conservatives on Europe," he told Gordon Brown in several
conversations. Even on the night of May 11, as Brown prepared to resign, Clegg
was fretting about the Tories' antipathy to the EU: "We need some sanity on
Europe. We can't seek to renegotiate."

Well, three years on, that is precisely what the Government in which he is
Deputy Prime Minister is proposing to do. But what troubles the Lib Dems most is
not Cameron's plan: most of the blueprint outlined in his speech on the EU in
January concerns strategic steps to be taken by a putative Tory government after
the 2015 general election and beyond the lifetime of the Coalition. For Clegg's
party, the clear and present danger is not exit from the EU but political
implosion: the risk that the ravenous virus of "Europe" will eat away at the
Tory body, until the whole structure of the Government simply collapses.

The Lib Dems are obsessively preoccupied by institutional change as the basis
for enhanced democracy: the Alternative Vote, Lords reform, localism... these
they have approached with a passion. But the Conservative fixation with Europe
and British nationhood has long mystified them, and now frightens them. The
question they ask is: where does it all end? When will the Tory party grow weary
of self-scarring? The very last thing the Lib Dems want is the break-up of the
Coalition and an early general election in which they would be summarily
slaughtered.

The greater mystery for the Lib Dems is why the Tories are allowing good news to
be eclipsed. "You'd think they would make more of King's remarks," says one of
Clegg's closest allies. "Isn't that the real story?" Last week, Sir Mervyn King,
the departing Governor of the Bank of England, announced that "a modest and
sustained recovery" was on its way. As he himself noted, this was "the first
time" he had been able to make such a prediction "since before the financial
crisis".

As a Chancellor who has known only global financial turbulence and a currency
crisis on Britain's doorstep, George Osborne is disinclined to hail "green
shoots". Since the Autumn Statement of 2011, he has been publicly committed to a
programme of deficit reduction that will last well into the next Parliament - at
least. So there is no bunting in the Treasury. Previous inhabitants of No 11
have tempted fate with calamitous consequences.

Even so, King's statement was a significant punctuation mark in the story of
this Government - perhaps very significant indeed. It should, at any rate, have
been the main political story of the week. Instead, it was drowned out by the
clamour of Europe and obscure arguments over amendments, draft legislation,
abstention, and hypothetical questions. It is Osborne's 42nd birthday on
Thursday. The best present the Chancellor's party could give him - and itself -
would be to change the record.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Deal with it: a does of Hague common sense amid the Tory turmoil on Ukip and
Europe

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1969 words


IN HIS large wood-panelled room at the Foreign Office, William Hague sips tea
from a mug bearing the slogan: "Shut up and deal with it." It is a reminder of
the no-nonsense approach he brings to one of the Government's trickiest roles.

With the Coalition under political strain, and the Conservative Party gripped by
one of its periodic bouts of turmoil over Europe, it feels like it is just the
right time for a bit of Yorkshire common sense.

The Foreign Secretary tells The Sunday Telegraph that the Coalition is "turning
the country around" - but that only a majority Conservative government can offer
a proper choice about whether Britain should stay in the European Union.

He also says that the world is a more dangerous place than three years ago, when
the Coalition took office, with Syria top of his list.

EUROPE AND THE LIB DEMS Last week saw a landmark split in the Coalition, with
Conservative ministers drawing up their own Bill designed to "lock in" David
Cameron's promise of an "in/out" referendum on Britain's future membership of
the EU.

It could not be a government Bill, because a referendum is not supported by the
Lib Dems, and it will instead be "carried forward" by a Conservative
backbencher, James Wharton, with the support of Tory ministers.

Many Tories, including Grant Shapps, the party chairman, are quick to pin the
blame on Nick Clegg, pointing out that an "in/ out" referendum pledge was in the
Lib Dem manifesto for the 2010 election. Does Mr Hague, one of the "fathers" of
the Coalition, and who remains one of its stronger supporters, agree? He points
out that the Lib Dems supported the Conservatives in passing the Referendum Act,
which means there must in law be a referendum if more powers are to be
transferred from Britain to Brussels.

The situation is different now, he acknowledges. "They don't agree with us on
what we've been talking about, that there should be an in/ out referendum after
every effort to find a new settlement on Europe.

"To us Conservatives that's a bit inconsistent, because at the last election
their policy was to have an in/out referendum ... I think the truth is that
their commitment at the last election was only ever a device, they weren't
expecting that chip ever to be cashed."

Does he feel irritated or let down by his Coalition partners? He does his best
to laugh the question off.

"Oh, I'm not surprised they changed their policy on this soon after the last
election, so I don't let irritations or disappointments get in the way of the
business of government, otherwise I would sit at his desk being nothing other
than irritated all day."

Intriguingly, Mr Hague offers Mr Clegg the chance to jump aboard the referendum
train, even though there appears to be little or no chance of that happening, by
appealing to the Lib Dems to "join us in agreeing the right policy".

If they did, he says, the Bill could be taken forward "on a Coalition basis."

EUROPE AND UKIP One of the main reasons, of course, for the latest Conservative
flurry on Europe is the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip), led by Nigel
Farage, whose breezy charm and pledge of an immediate "Brexit", or British exit,
from the EU appeal to rising numbers of what were once "core Conservative"
voters.

The Tory high command still appears unsure on how to address the Ukip problem,
with the Prime Minister recently apologising for his earlier description of some
of the party's supporters as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists". Mr Hague
takes them on directly, describing Ukip as a "fringe party" that does not have
"the remotest agenda for practical government".

He adds: "If you look at the Ukip agenda, it involves huge increases on spending
on some things and big reductions in taxation on others ... the country would be
bankrupt more rapidly than it was getting under Gordon Brown." Ukip, which is
doing well in the opinion polls and has achieved some startling results both in
parliamentary by-elections and local council elections, is dismissed by Mr Hague
as "the protest vehicle of this year, of the moment".

Nadine Dorries, the maverick Tory backbencher, has even suggested that the
Tories field joint candidates with Ukip at the next general election, in what
would be an unprecedented pact between Right-of-centre parties. Some of her
colleagues are understood privately to share this view.

The idea gets short shrift, however, from Mr Hague. "We're not making pacts with
other parties ... The Conservative Party is a national party, it fights all the
constituencies in its own right. A general election is a choice between the
Conservative Party in government or other parties that have been in government,
principally the Labour Party. "We are not fighting any election on the basis of
pacts with others."

CAMERON'S LEADERSHIP It has not been the easiest of weeks for the Prime
Minister, who has been depicted as a latter-day John Major, battling to stop his
govern-ment being torn apart over Europe by Tory renegades both inside and
outside of it.

The Foreign Secretary, however, believes Mr Cameron has "exceeded expectations
in every major European negotiation so far". He points out that Mr Cameron is
the first British prime minister to negotiate a reduction in the EU budget and
has stopped Britain being held liable for eurozone bail-outs. "He's also the
first Conservative leader in history to commit the party to an in/out referendum
... that is a huge step, it's an immense development in British politics.

"To take a position like the one I've described - and make good friends in
Europe - that is a pretty good all-round political and diplomatic piece of
leadership." The trouble is, Tory Eurosceptics appear to "bank" every concession
from Mr Cameron and go on to demand more. Meanwhile, two Cabinet ministers -
Michael Gove and Philip Hammond - declare they would vote to leave the EU if a
referendum were held today while Lord Astor, the defence minister, has promised
that the Tories would campaign "heart and soul" to stay in, following a
renegotiation of Britain's terms of membership.

Voters, you feel, are getting a mixed message.

Significantly, Mr Hague signals that ministers have been brought robustly into
line after the claims by Mr Gove and Mr Hammond last weekend, just as Mr Cameron
flew to Washington for talks with President Barack Obama.

"The rest of the Cabinet will not be answering hypothetical questions," he says.
"What we're doing is holding a referendum on the timetable we've set [before the
end of 2017]. We can't all give a commentary on how we would vote every week
between now and then."

The Tory mantra is now "forward with unity" he agrees with a smile, imbuing a
bland-sounding slogan with a slight hint of menace.

THE COALITION At one stage in the interview, when he is underlining what he sees
as the successes of Mr Cameron's administration, Mr Hague uses a Labour verbal
construction, refer-ring to the "Conservative-led government".

Ministers have "cut immigration by a third," he declares, while "crime is down"
and two million people have been taken out of income tax. Education is being
reformed and welfare payments are being capped: "These are things that
Conservative supporters should be very enthusiastic about."

However, amid reports last week that Tory aides have been "war gaming" the
possible break-up of the Coalition next year, Mr Hague credits the
administration with "turning around this country".

He adds: "We're just past midterm and it's fractionally better but not much
different from what I expected. It was bound to get more difficult as it went
along ... and you can see the things that have imposed the strains: House of
Lords reform, boundary changes, tuition fees.

"The fact that we have disagreements on Europe, on the House of Lords and so on,
doesn't stop it working well enough as a coalition. It's not our first choice
... this government would be very much simpler if we were a majority government
and we will be going at the next election for a majority government.

It's not a merger: it's a coalition."

SYRIA The Foreign Secretary says he is dealing with "an exceptional number of
international issues, including desperate crises, with Syria at the top of the
list."

World leaders are stepping up efforts to bring a negotiated end to the civil war
there, which saw President Bashar al-Assad condemned by the United Nations last
week for "escalating" the conflict in which more than 90,000 have died.

It is also, Mr Hague discloses, closer to home than it might first appear.
"There are probably about 70 British people who have gone to Syria to fight and
if they are fighting with extremist groups that is of concern to us and our own
national security.

"It is a good illustration, because sometimes people say, 'Why do we have to be
involved at all in what's going on in Syria?' It's partly for that reason, it's
partly because this conflict can spread easily to destabilising Lebanon and
Jordan, it can draw in Israel as we've seen in some recent air strikes.

"There are 1.5million refugees. This is not something you can turn your back on,
it affects us all." Diplomatic efforts are focusing on set-ting up an
international conference in Geneva to work towards a transitional government.
"There's only a diplomatic solution, there is no military victory for any side
that is going to end the conflict in Syria."

WORLD SECURITY Mr Hague says he entered the Foreign Office with the underlying
aim of making British overseas policy much more trade and business-friendly, and
he claims to be having a decent measure of success in this.

However, he admits he is having to spend the large majority of time
"firefighting" international crises, of which Syria is only one. Is the world a
more dangerous place now even than when the Coalition first came to office in
May 2010? "Yes. It's more dangerous for different reasons, partly because the
revolutions of the Arab Spring have set off a chain of events. This will last
for a generation - it's the biggest event of the 21st century so far, even
bigger than the financial crisis." The terrorism threat remains, the Foreign
Secretary adds, although al-Qaeda has become "more diffuse", with people
"working to take advantage of local grievances" in parts of Africa and the
Middle East.

Then there is North Korea and its long-range missile programme, while cybercrime
has become "one of the big threats to the UK ... it's getting worse all the
time.

"It's no threat directly at the moment to people's lives but it is a threat to
their identities, and certainly the intellectual property of major companies."

Mr Hague declines to "name and shame" governments linked to cybercrime, but
Britain is thought to be the target of up to 1,000 cyberattacks every hour. It
is no secret that Russia and China are identi-fied as among the major culprits.

BRITAIN'S EXPORT DRIVE The Foreign Secretary is spearheading a big push for
British exporters, which is particularly aimed at helping small and mediumsized
companies develop their overseas markets.

Currently only one in five SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) is an
exporter and, Mr Hague says, if this could be lifted to one in four, Britain's
trade defi-cit with the rest of the world would be eliminated.

He also says that UK Trade and Investment, the government body charged with
promoting exports, is now "much more geared to" smaller businesses than it was
five years ago. "There is dramatically more government activity - we have
tripled the number of ministerial visits to Latin America for instance - and the
reason we have sent 60 more diplomats to China and now have the biggest
diplomatic network of any country in India is to support British business.

"So if the last time [companies] thought about this was five years ago, try us
now and they will find the support is much more active." Editorial Comment: Page
27

ON UKIP

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Britain 'cannot turn its back' on the Syrian crisis and its refugees
William Hague says he spends a lot of his time 'firefighting' an exceptional
number of international crises
WARREN ALLOTT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Calling grassroots stalwarts loons' is no way to heal divisions;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Iain Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 740 words


Why is a senior Cameroon attacking Tory members? This latest episode tops a
deeply frustrating period for the Conservative leadership, with the Tory party
at Westminster increasingly bogged down in arguments with itself.

This week the gay marriage Bill comes back to the Commons, with a rebellion
involving MPs and even ministers anticipated. Forget the spin attempted by No 10
last week, that the Prime Minister's team is relaxed about the recent Tory
shenanigans on subjects such as Europe. A rebel amendment criticising the
Queen's Speech attracted the support of more than 100 Tory MPs, and the Prime
Minister has been forced to concede a draft Bill calling for an EU referendum.

But the comment by someone very close to David Cameron, that grassroots Tory
members are "mad, swivel-eyed loons", has inflamed the situation and infuriated
his MPs. Said one mainstream MP yesterday: "This individual should have been
fired by the Prime Minister by lunchtime. Attacking the members and activists we
have left is madness."

How damaging is it? It is certainly another gift to Ukip as it tries to woo
disaffected Tories. And once again, in terms of the broader electorate, the risk
for the Tories is that it makes them look like a rabble addicted to infighting.
But the worst damage will be inside the party.

The shrinking membership is the backbone of the party, made up of people who
give up their time to stuff envelopes, deliver leaflets and stand as
councillors. Insulting them is shockingly ill-advised, particularly at a moment
when Mr Cameron needs all the support he can get. His fiercest critics are
already saying that the "loon" slur proves the validity of their charge that the
dwindling band of so-called Tory modernisers have always viewed their fellow
non-metropolitan Conservatives with contempt.

Is that accusation fair? From early in his leadership it has been a problem. In
2007 when Mr Cameron picked a fight with many Conservative-inclined voters by
opposing calls for more grammar schools it wasn't enough for him to disagree
with his opponents, he had to call them "deluded". It established a pattern, and
both sides have become steadily more abusive about each other.

In the end, taking a cavalier approach to party management may turn out to be
his single biggest miscalculation. Rather than trying to find common ground and
persuade other Tories to unite around that, too often the Cameroons have seen
leadership in terms of a fight between "mods" and Right-wing "rockers". But it
is Mr Cameron's adoption of the policy of gay marriage that has most angered the
traditional wing of the party.

Will gay marriage go ahead? Almost certainly. It is likely that the measure will
in some form eventually become law with Labour support, although not before
another round of Conservative bloodletting. Another messy week of infighting at
Westminster is in prospect.

Tory opponents of the Bill are pushing an amendment, which outraged party
supporters of gay marriage say is designed to scupper their cherished reform. Mr
Cameron's decision to push a measure that is so divisive in his party looks
bizarre considering the number of other fronts on which he is under pressure.

How has the gay marriage issue affected party membership? Ministers and MPs swap
horror stories of the number of members lost by their local Conservative
associations. Party membership under Mr Cameron had already more than halved
before gay marriage but party insiders say that the added impetus generated by
the Bill means that it will not be long before it falls below the 100,000 mark.

To put that in context, for much of Margaret Thatcher's time as leader the
Tories had more than one million members, and when Mr Cameron became leader it
was well over 250,000. Lord Feldman, co-chairman of the Conservative Party,
launched a membership drive earlier this year, but this latest row will not
help.

How will Ed Miliband respond? At the moment all he has to do is sit back with a
smile on his face and enjoy the spectacle. However, although the Labour leader
can take some satisfaction in Tory discomfort, the rise of Ukip also presents
him with a challenge.

Labour is still leading in the polls, but it is doing so on a relatively small
share of the vote. Mr Miliband's personal ratings are poor and his party is not
widely trusted on the economy. Mr Cameron's best - increasingly vain - hope is
that his party calms down, and voters focus on Labour's weaknesses.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron is so relaxed I want to slap him

BYLINE: JANET DALEY

SECTION: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1143 words


o David Cameron is the new John Major, is he? The Tory party is once again an
electoral basket case, is it? Well, I remember the Major government - perhaps
rather better than a lot of the youngsters now making slapdash comparisons
between then and now. Believe me, this is nothing like then. In the final years
of the Major era, the tawdry embarrassments of government ministers were rarely
out of the headlines: sex scandals were followed by revelations of political
incompetence, and those were followed by more sex scandals. The running of the
country was generally regarded as beyond parody, although parody of it was a
flourishing industry.

The economy was actually doing very well indeed - so well that it took Labour
over a decade to ruin it - but the country gave the Conservatives no credit for
that because it seemed to be happening in spite of their policies rather than
because of them. (The boom had followed on Britain falling out of the ERM - a
disastrous experiment into which Major's Conservatives had led us.) But surely,
say the doom-merchants, the farrago of the past week has shown voters that the
Tory party is still a divided and obsessive rabble led by a weak and indecisive
prime minister - ergo, welcome back to the black hole of 1996 and the inevitable
loss of the next general election.

As one who lived through, and wrote about, every agonising moment of that
period, I think I can safely say that this analysis is (almost) completely
wrong. Why do I think this? Because, unlike then, the great mass of the voting
public is paying very little attention to the tortuous, day-by-day,
minute-by-minute internecine wars that are dominating the consciousness of
Westminster.

I do not mean by this that the issue of Europe, and of a referendum on the EU,
is not important to the electorate. It is more important, if anything, than the
opinion polls suggest, because it has become totemic in the mood of general
disenchantment with the political class. Resentment of the EU has expanded to
fill the vacuum left by a general lack of conviction.

But even people who voted for Ukip glaze over pretty quickly when the talk gets
down to paving Bills and legally enforced mandates proposed by private members.
In the troubles of the past week, the force of the issue has got lost in
hopelessly arcane detail that will be largely forgotten - if it was noticed at
all - by "real people" who are much more worried about their own financial
security now than they were then, and so do not have the mental leisure for
politics as a spectator sport.

Where does this leave Tory election prospects? Pretty much exactly where they
were before the ruckus in the Commons last week. That is not, of course, great
news. Even before this whole Ukip-driven catastrophe, the leadership had been
doing its best to throw away the advantages it had in the form of truly valuable
reform programmes. I get tired of saying this, but it bears repeating again and
again: Iain Duncan Smith on welfare, Michael Gove on education and Chris
Grayling on criminal justice are making radical, essential changes to public
policy that would almost certainly be lost if Labour (or worse, a Labour-Liberal
coalition) came to power.

That is why the capacity of the Cameron leadership to turn a setback into a
shambles is a matter of desperate concern. The lasting damage to the party - the
thing that might really stick in voters' minds - is not the mind-numbing detail
of the back-bench rebellions, but the apparent complacency of the Prime Minister
in the face of genuine public disquiet.

Why on earth did he have to say that he was "intensely relaxed" about the EU
referendum battle? What the public heard was not confidence but smug insouciance
about the whole question of EU membership. I don't know about you, but when
somebody tells me that he is "intensely relaxed" about something that I find
deeply worrying, it makes me want to slap him.

Which brings us to the heart of public doubts about Mr Cameron: people are not
afraid that he is a secret Europhile, they are afraid that he is an incurable
snob who is altogether too "intensely relaxed" about things that concern them
(and whose allies, we learn, think Tory supporters are "swivel-eyed loons"). And
what concerns them most, as they keep telling the guys with the clipboards, is
the economy - by which they mean job security and the cost of living.

The real Ukip problem for the Tories is that people are making a connection
between membership of the EU and their own economic future. They believe that
their (or their children's) job prospects are damaged by the influx of EU
migrants. They see the eurozone in constant crisis and fear the contagion may be
contributing to the UK's problems. They think that recovery is being delayed by
absurd EU regulations and directives. They resent the autocratic arrogance of EU
officials and institutions which only underlines the ineffectualness of their
own elected government. So any weakness or vacillation on the part of the Prime
Minister is seen through this prism. If he appears unconcerned, unengaged or
unwilling to address their needs with sincere urgency, voters not only become
disgusted with him, but they also see this as part of the general enfeeblement
of national government under the curse of the EU.

But Mr Cameron is not without power. He can, if he chooses, take the suspected
oil price-fixers by the scruff of the neck and see to it that real market
competition delivers lower fuel costs. But to do that in a way that would truly
impress the country, he and his Chancellor will have to get over their Brownite
tendency to create even more footling regulations. The fixers will have to be
prosecuted, the cartels will have to be smashed, and the consumer will have to
feel that his choice of suppliers isn't a mockery. And in the course of doing
this, Mr Cameron will have to make an impassioned case for what (I hope) he
believes: that price-fixing is a distortion of the free market, not a function
of it. How serious is he about dealing with the cost of living? Will we get a
few moments of lusty rhetoric followed by nothing, as we have had so often
before? Voters know that he and his Chancellor have never personally had to
worry about the cost of filling the tank, or heating the house. Are they
"intensely relaxed" about this, too? It has been said (by the perennially
mournful Governor of the Bank of England, no less) that we will soon have an
economic recovery. But don't count on that to rescue the leadership of Mr
Cameron and his Chancellor. If, by that time, they have come to seem chronically
ineffectual or hopelessly obtuse about the reality of ordinary life, then the
new prosperity will appear to have happened in spite of them, not because of
them. And so, in the end, they could inherit the fate of the hapless Major
government after all.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Have our cake and eat it' is not on the EU's menu

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 733 words


ow symbolic it was that just when those 114 Tory MPs were voting to deplore the
omission from the Queen's Speech of any mention of an in/out referendum on the
EU, the EU's finance ministers in Brussels were voting for UK taxpayers to give
another £770million to this year's agreed EU budget, with a further £400 million
to follow. George Osborne had gone over to Brussels determined to resist this
additional demand, but was derisively outvoted. UK taxpayers must therefore fork
out a further £1.2 billion, making a mockery of that ancient and jealously
guarded rule that money can only be taken off them by agreement of the House of
Commons.

The previous week, our Government, in the Queen's Speech, could only scrape
together proposals for a mere 20 new Bills, when not long ago Parliament could
regularly pass up to 200 Bills in a session. But this is because so much of our
lawmaking has now been outsourced to our real government in Brussels (the
European Parliament website lists over 1,300 "legislative acts" being considered
in its current session). The MPs we elect to Westminster have no more control
over that than they do over the EU's decision to filch another £1 billion of our
money.

A measure of just how far the power has drained from our emasculated Westminster
Parliament is the sight of our politicians now resentfully stumbling around in a
fog, arguing one way or another about some possible referendum, without really
grasping any of the realities of the situation in which we now find ourselves.
We see them falling into three main groups.

The first includes all those unreconstructed Europhiles who think it pointless
even to discuss a referendum because the polls show "Europe" way down the list
of issues voters think important. Oddly enough, the last thing such people want
to explain to those voters is that the EU is now the chief engine of our
government, let alone what an unholy mess it is making of all it touches.

A second large group, led by Mr Cameron, favours the "have our cake and eat it"
option. They admit that Britain's position is desperately unsatisfactory, but
kid themselves into thinking that we can remain a member of the EU while somehow
renegotiating the return of some of those powers we have given away. But they
are baying for the moon, ignoring the most sacred rule on which it has steadily
accumulated its powers for 60 years: that once power is given away to the
centre, it can never be handed back. The "reformed" EU they babble of is one
that does not and cannot exist.

Still further across the spectrum are those dreamers demanding an in/out
referendum as soon as possible, because they want us to get out. What they
overlook is that, if such a referendum were held in the foreseeable future, the
"yes" vote to stay in would win overwhelmingly, because a) no one has yet
offered a properly worked out and positive vision of how well Britain could fare
if we were to leave, and b) the leaderships of all the major parties, most of
the media - led by the BBC - and big business would campaign to keep us in.
Because of the absence of a positive alternative, it would be only too easy to
scare voters into thinking that we would be left miserably out in the cold,
losing half our trade and all that influence that we enjoy sitting around in
Brussels being outvoted by our 26 colleagues.

In short, we might be just like Norway and Switzerland, the two most prosperous
countries in Europe, outside the EU but free to do more of their trade with it
than we do. In many ways they actually have more influence on its affairs than
Britain, through belonging to those global bodies that now make many of the
rules on which we are represented only by the EU.

Scratch away at what Mr Cameron's lot think they are after, and what it really
comes down to is that they want us to be allowed to continue trading with the
EU, like Norway and Switzerland, but without all that suffocating political
baggage that goes along with the EU's drive to "ever-closer union".

The only way they can get that is by invoking Article 50 of the Treaty of
Lisbon, which alone could compel the EU to sit down with us to negotiate
precisely the sort of a deal they want. But the snag is, of course, that we can
only open that door by saying we want to leave: the very last thing Mr Cameron
is prepared to do.

He wants to have his cake and eat it - a dish that is simply not on the menu.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron thought he had acted tough in Brussels in February over
Britain's budget for the EU. But we have still been landed with an additional
bill for £770million
EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Swivel-eyed loons hit back at PM

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY ; ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1787 words


DAVID CAMERON was told by Conservative activists last night that he must repair
the broken relationship between the party leadership and the grass roots branded
by one of his inner circle as "swivel-eyed loons".

One leading activist accused elements at the top of the party of "utter
contempt" for supporters, while a leading MP said activists were being treated
as "pariahs".

They spoke out after the Prime Minister suffered a series of setbacks that
reinforced claims that he and his inner circle were out of touch with the
concerns of core Conservatives. The blows included: Þ Lord Feldman, co-chairman
of the Conservative Party, became embroiled in a row after a senior Conservative
called Tory activists "mad, swivel-eyed loons" who were forcing MPs to take
hard-line positions on Europe and same-sex marriage; ÞAn ICM poll for The Sunday
Telegraph showed the public taking a more Eurosceptic line than Mr Cameron, with
46 per cent wanting to leave the European Union and 44 per cent calling for an
immediate "in/out" referendum. The survey also underlined the rise of Nigel
Farage and the UK Independence Party; ÞUp to 200 Tory MPs prepared to vote
against Mr Cameron's plans to allow same-sex couples to marry. At least three
Cabinet ministers are expected to join rebels in opposing at least some of the
Government's proposals.

Two issues - Europe and same-sex marriage - have been seized on by grassroots
activists to claim that Mr Cameron and his inner circle are "out of touch" with
the views of ordinary party members.

Last night, the chairman of Conservative Grassroots, a leading activists'
pressure group, said the Prime Minister and his inner circle lived in a
"Westminster bubble".

Relations between Mr Cameron's circle and the party's grass roots worsened as
Lord Feldman put himself at the centre of the row over comments about activists,
inevitably dubbed "swivelgate".

Yesterday, newspapers including The Daily Telegraph, The Times and the Daily
Mirror, quoted a senior figure who said Tory MPs were being forced into
hard-line views on Europe and same-sex marriage.

"There's really no problem. The MPs just have to do it because the associations
tell them to, and the associations are all mad swivel-eyed loons," said a
Conservative described as one of Mr Cameron's closest allies.

Lord Feldman, 47, who was appointed co-chairman of the party in 2010, denied
making the remarks after rumours circulated on social networking sites that he
was responsible. He admitted speaking to journalists after a private dinner for
Conservative Friends of Pakistan at the InterContinental Hotel in Westminster on
Wednesday night, but said it was "completely untrue" that he had called
activists "swivel-eyed loons".

Sources said the peer came out of a private room in the hotel and spoke to
journalists who were on a table in a public area with a "fifth man", understood
to be a senior civil servant. The "fifth man" was said to have said he could not
recollect the exact words used. The Daily Telegraph said it stood by its report.
It and the other newspapers have not named the member of Mr Cameron's circle
behind the slur.

Lord Feldman said: "There is speculation on the internet and on Twitter that the
senior Conservative Party figure claimed to have made derogatory comments by The
Times and the Telegraph is me.

"This is completely untrue. I would like to make it quite clear that I did not
nor have ever described our associations in this way or in any similar manner.
Nor do these alleged comments represent my view of our activists.

"On the contrary, in the last eight years of working for the party, I have found
them to be hard-working, committed and reasonable people. They are without
question the backbone of the party.

"I am very disappointed by the behaviour of the journalists involved, who have
allowed rumour and innuendo to take hold by not putting these allegations to me
before publication. I am taking legal advice."

The row carries uncomfortable echoes of last year's saga that saw Andrew
Mitchell, then the Conservative chief whip, accused of calling police officers
at Downing Street "plebs" - claims that he strongly denies.

Lord Feldman attended Haberdashers' Aske's Boys' School in Hertfordshire and
became a close friend of Mr Cameron when the pair were at Brasenose College,
Oxford, in the Eighties.

Last night, Grant Shapps, the Tory cochairman alongside Lord Feldman, described
the peer as a "good guy" who was "very straightforward and honest".

Mr Shapps said: "Andrew Feldman, the name that wasn't mentioned in the article
but in fact was swirling around the internet earlier, absolutely assures
everybody it wasn't him. I believe him."

Robert Woollard, a former chairman of Wycombe Conservative Association, said of
the remarks linked to Lord Feldman: "These are arrogant and pompous comments
that show the utter contempt some people in David Cameron's camp have for the
grass roots of our party."

The timing of the "swivel-eyed loon" row is potentially damaging. This Continued
on Page 2 NO 46 %DON'T KNOW 24 YES 30 Q How would you vote if there was a
referendum tomorrow, asking the question: 'Do you think that the UK should
remain a member of the EU?'

Continued from Page 1 week, Mr Cameron faces a new parliamentary showdown with
his party, with up to 200 Tory backbenchers expected to vote against his plans
to allow same-sex couples to marry.

Cabinet ministers are expected to be among the "rebels". Chris Grayling, the
Justice Secretary, indicated that he would support amendments to protect people
who spoke up for traditional marriage, while David Jones, the Welsh Secretary,
and Owen Paterson, the Environment Secretary, will both vote against the Bill at
its third reading in the Commons.

David Burrowes, the backbench rebel leader, writes in an article for The Sunday
Telegraph, below: "The impression I have from talking to colleagues is that
attitudes have hardened against the Government's plan since the initial vote
three months ago.

"There is also a good chance that the Lords will also throw this out when they
vote on the Bill next month."

He said the "loon" comments would only reinforce the feeling of alienation the
gay marriage plan has created among Tory supporters.

As well as opposition to the plan among Tory grassroots and back-bench MPs,
religious leaders have begun a new drive against the proposals.

A letter in today's Sunday Telegraph from more than 500 of Britain's imams
claims the move will "gravely affect the entire society" and adds: "Despite the
government's reassurance we believe that this will open the door for future laws
that will force imams to marry gay people."

The issue of Europe was also at the heart of the row.

In an interview with this newspaper, William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, rules
out any chance of the Conservatives forging a pact with Ukip ahead of the 2015
general election, a move supported by some Tory MPs. "We are not fighting the
election on the basis of pacts with others," Mr Hague says in the interview. He
also goes out of his way to lay down the law on Europe after declarations by two
cabinet ministers that they would vote to leave the EU if a referendum was held
now.

The Foreign Secretary was said by senior Tory sources to have been "furious"
after Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence
Secretary, made the comments last weekend as Mr Cameron was about to depart for
talks in Washington.

Both Mr Gove and Mr Hammond are suspected by MPs of being "on manoeuvres" to
position themselves as future party leaders - and to have backed a "Brexit" from
the EU to court the Tory Right.

Mr Hague, who has had the unofficial status of Conservative "deputy leader"
bestowed on him by Mr Cameron, says today: "The rest of the Cabinet will not be
answering hypothetical questions." He demands the party shows "unity" on the
issue in the coming months.

Rows about the future direction of the party's European policy have dogged Mr
Cameron since he entered Downing Street. Last week, the Conservatives published
a draft EU Referendum Bill - to enshrine plans for the 2017 vote in law - which
cannot be government policy because the Liberal Democrats do not support the
move.

Instead, it will be taken through the Commons by a Tory backbencher, James
Wharton, with the backing of Conservative ministers.

Today's ICM poll, with its strong eurosceptic message, provides little comfort
for Mr Cameron but also represents a blow for Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg. When
voters are asked the exact question Conservatives want to put to the public in
the 2017 referendum, "Do you think that the UK should remain a member of the EU?
", 46 per cent opt to come out, a higher figure than in other recent polls,
while just 30 per cent want to stay in.

The headline figure using ICM's "Wisdom Index" method - which asks voters to
predict the result of the next general election rather than which party they
support - puts Labour just three points ahead of the Tories, the party's
narrowest lead since the index was launched last year.

Labour fell four points from last month to 32 per cent, with the Conservatives
down one on 29 per cent and the Liberal Democrats also down one on 16 per cent.

Voters believe Ukip will win 15 per cent of the vote in the 2015 general
election - a high figure which underlines the party's recent good results in
parliamentary by-elections and local council ballots.

Mr Cameron, on 31 per cent, is the party leader most trusted to negotiate with
the EU on Britain's behalf. In second place is Mr Farage, marginally ahead of Mr
Miliband, although both men are on 18 per cent when numbers are rounded up. Mr
Clegg is languishing on just 4 per cent. In a further boost for the Eurosceptic
cause, 44 per cent want an "in/out" referendum immediately, although 29 per cent
are prepared to wait until 2017, the Prime Minister's preferred option. Just 9
per cent back the current stance of Labour and the Lib Dems, both of whom oppose
referendum plans.

In his interview, Mr Hague calls the Lib Dems "a bit inconsistent" because at
the 2010 general election their policy was for an "in/out" vote. "I think the
truth is that their commitment at the last election was only ever a device, they
weren't expecting the chip ever to be cashed."

He also calls on the Tories' coalition partners to "join us in agreeing the
right policy" so the current Referendum Bill could become a government Bill -
although there seems little or no chance of this happening.

Mr Hague attacks Ukip as a "fringe party" that does not have "the remotest
agenda for practical government". If the party were in power, he argues, Britain
would "be bankrupt more rapidly than it was getting under Gordon Brown".

Continued from Page 1 week, [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Deal with it: a dose of Hague common sense amid the Tory turmoil on Ukip and
Europe

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1970 words


IN HIS large wood-panelled room at the Foreign Office, William Hague sips tea
from a mug bearing the slogan: "Shut up and deal with it." It is a reminder of
the no-nonsense approach he brings to one of the Government's trickiest roles.

With the Coalition under political strain, and the Conservative Party gripped by
one of its periodic bouts of turmoil over Europe, it feels like it is just the
right time for a bit of Yorkshire common sense.

The Foreign Secretary tells The Sunday Telegraph that the Coalition is "turning
the country around" - but that only a majority Conservative government can offer
a proper choice about whether Britain should stay in the European Union.

He also says that the world is a more dangerous place than three years ago, when
the Coalition took office, with Syria top of his list.

EUROPE AND THE LIB DEMS Last week saw a landmark split in the Coalition, with
Conservative ministers drawing up their own Bill designed to "lock in" David
Cameron's promise of an "in/out" referendum on Britain's future membership of
the EU.

It could not be a government Bill, because a referendum is not supported by the
Lib Dems, and it will instead be "carried forward" by a Conservative
backbencher, James Wharton, with the support of Tory ministers.

Many Tories, including Grant Shapps, the party chairman, are quick to pin the
blame on Nick Clegg, pointing out that an "in/ out" referendum pledge was in the
Lib Dem manifesto for the 2010 election. Does Mr Hague, one of the "fathers" of
the Coalition, and who remains one of its stronger supporters, agree? He points
out that the Lib Dems supported the Conservatives in passing the Referendum Act,
which means there must in law be a referendum if more powers are to be
transferred from Britain to Brussels.

The situation is different now, he acknowledges. "They don't agree with us on
what we've been talking about, that there should be an in/ out referendum after
every effort to find a new settlement on Europe.

"To us Conservatives that's a bit inconsistent, because at the last election
their policy was to have an in/out referendum ... I think the truth is that
their commitment at the last election was only ever a device, they weren't
expecting that chip ever to be cashed."

Does he feel irritated or let down by his Coalition partners? He does his best
to laugh the question off.

"Oh, I'm not surprised they changed their policy on this soon after the last
election, so I don't let irritations or disappointments get in the way of the
business of government, otherwise I would sit at this desk being nothing other
than irritated all day."

Intriguingly, Mr Hague offers Mr Clegg the chance to jump aboard the referendum
train, even though there appears to be little or no chance of that happening, by
appealing to the Lib Dems to "join us in agreeing the right policy".

If they did, he says, the Bill could be taken forward "on a Coalition basis".

EUROPE AND UKIP One of the main reasons, of course, for the latest Conservative
flurry on Europe is the rise of the UK Independence Party (Ukip), led by Nigel
Farage, whose breezy charm and pledge of an immediate "Brexit", or British exit,
from the EU appeal to rising numbers of what were once "core Conservative"
voters.

The Tory high command still appears unsure on how to address the Ukip problem,
with the Prime Minister recently apologising for his earlier description of some
of the party's supporters as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists". Mr Hague
takes them on directly, describing Ukip as a "fringe party" that does not have
"the remotest agenda for practical government".

He adds: "If you look at the Ukip agenda, it involves huge increases on spending
on some things and big reductions in taxation on others ... the country would be
bankrupt more rapidly than it was getting under Gordon Brown." Ukip, which is
doing well in the opinion polls and has achieved some startling results both in
parliamentary by-elections and local council elections, is dismissed by Mr Hague
as "the protest vehicle of this year, of the moment".

Nadine Dorries, the maverick Tory backbencher, has even suggested that the
Tories field joint candidates with Ukip at the next general election, in what
would be an unprecedented pact between Right-of-centre parties. Some of her
colleagues are understood privately to share this view.

The idea gets short shrift, however, from Mr Hague. "We're not making pacts with
other parties ... The Conservative Party is a national party, it fights all the
constituencies in its own right. A general election is a choice between the
Conservative Party in government or other parties that have been in government,
principally the Labour Party. "We are not fighting any election on the basis of
pacts with others."

CAMERON'S LEADERSHIP It has not been the easiest of weeks for the Prime
Minister, who has been depicted as a latter-day John Major, battling to stop his
govern-ment being torn apart over Europe by Tory renegades both inside and
outside of it.

The Foreign Secretary, however, believes Mr Cameron has "exceeded expectations
in every major European negotiation so far". He points out that Mr Cameron is
the first British prime minister to negotiate a reduction in the EU budget and
has stopped Britain being held liable for eurozone bail-outs. "He's also the
first Conservative leader in history to commit the party to an in/out referendum
... that is a huge step, it's an immense development in British politics.

"To take a position like the one I've described - and make good friends in
Europe - that is a pretty good all-round political and diplomatic piece of
leadership." The trouble is, Tory Eurosceptics appear to "bank" every concession
from Mr Cameron and go on to demand more. Meanwhile, two Cabinet ministers -
Michael Gove and Philip Hammond - declare they would vote to leave the EU if a
referendum were held today while Lord Astor, the defence minister, has promised
that the Tories would campaign "heart and soul" to stay in, following a
renegotiation of Britain's terms of membership.

Voters, you feel, are getting a mixed message.

Significantly, Mr Hague signals that ministers have been brought robustly into
line after the claims by Mr Gove and Mr Hammond last weekend, just as Mr Cameron
flew to Washington for talks with President Barack Obama.

"The rest of the Cabinet will not be answering hypothetical questions," he says.
"What we're doing is holding a referendum on the timetable we've set [before the
end of 2017]. We can't all give a commentary on how we would vote every week
between now and then."

The Tory mantra is now "forward with unity" he agrees with a smile, imbuing a
bland-sounding slogan with a slight hint of menace.

THE COALITION At one stage in the interview, when he is underlining what he sees
as the successes of Mr Cameron's administration, Mr Hague uses a Labour verbal
construction, refer-ring to the "Conservative-led government".

Ministers have "cut immigration by a third," he declares, while "crime is down"
and two million people have been taken out of income tax. Education is being
reformed and welfare payments are being capped: "These are things that
Conservative supporters should be very enthusiastic about."

However, amid reports last week that Tory aides have been "war gaming" the
possible break-up of the Coalition next year, Mr Hague credits the
administration with "turning around this country".

He adds: "We're just past midterm and it's fractionally better but not much
different from what I expected. It was bound to get more difficult as it went
along ... and you can see the things that have imposed the strains: House of
Lords reform, boundary changes, tuition fees.

"The fact that we have disagreements on Europe, on the House of Lords and so on,
doesn't stop it working well enough as a coalition. It's not our first choice
... this government would be very much simpler if we were a majority government
and we will be going at the next election for a majority government.

It's not a merger: it's a coalition."

SYRIA The Foreign Secretary says he is dealing with "an exceptional number of
international issues, including desperate crises, with Syria at the top of the
list".

World leaders are stepping up efforts to bring a negotiated end to the civil war
there, which saw President Bashar al-Assad condemned by the United Nations last
week for "escalating" the conflict in which more than 90,000 have died.

It is also, Mr Hague discloses, closer to home than it might first appear.
"There are probably about 70 British people who have gone to Syria to fight and
if they are fighting with extremist groups that is of concern to us and our own
national security.

"It is a good illustration, because sometimes people say, 'Why do we have to be
involved at all in what's going on in Syria?' It's partly for that reason, it's
partly because this conflict can spread easily to destabilising Lebanon and
Jordan, it can draw in Israel as we've seen in some recent air strikes.

"There are 1.5million refugees. This is not something you can turn your back on,
it affects us all." Diplomatic efforts are focusing on set-ting up an
international conference in Geneva to work towards a transitional government.
"There's only a diplomatic solution, there is no military victory for any side
that is going to end the conflict in Syria."

WORLD SECURITY Mr Hague says he entered the Foreign Office with the underlying
aim of making British overseas policy much more trade and business-friendly, and
he claims to be having a decent measure of success in this.

However, he admits he is having to spend the large majority of time
"firefighting" international crises, of which Syria is only one. Is the world a
more dangerous place now even than when the Coalition first came to office in
May 2010? "Yes. It's more dangerous for different reasons, partly because the
revolutions of the Arab Spring have set off a chain of events. This will last
for a generation - it's the biggest event of the 21st century so far, even
bigger than the financial crisis." The terrorism threat remains, the Foreign
Secretary adds, although al-Qaeda has become "more diffuse", with people
"working to take advantage of local grievances" in parts of Africa and the
Middle East.

Then there is North Korea and its long-range missile programme, while cybercrime
has become "one of the big threats to the UK ... it's getting worse all the
time.

"It's no threat directly at the moment to people's lives but it is a threat to
their identities, and certainly the intellectual property of major companies."

Mr Hague declines to "name and shame" governments linked to cybercrime, but
Britain is thought to be the target of up to 1,000 cyberattacks every hour. It
is no secret that Russia and China are identi-fied as among the major culprits.

BRITAIN'S EXPORT DRIVE The Foreign Secretary is spearheading a big push for
British exporters, which is particularly aimed at helping small and mediumsized
companies develop their overseas markets.

Currently only one in five SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) is an
exporter and, Mr Hague says, if this could be lifted to one in four, Britain's
trade defi-cit with the rest of the world would be eliminated.

He also says that UK Trade and Investment, the government body charged with
promoting exports, is now "much more geared to" smaller businesses than it was
five years ago. "There is dramatically more government activity - we have
tripled the number of ministerial visits to Latin America for instance - and the
reason we have sent 60 more diplomats to China and now have the biggest
diplomatic network of any country in India is to support British business.

"So if the last time [companies] thought about this was five years ago, try us
now and they will find the support is much more active." Editorial Comment: Page
27

ON UKIP

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Britain 'cannot turn its back' on the Syrian crisis and its refugees
William Hague says he spends a lot of his time 'firefighting' an exceptional
number of international crises
WARREN ALLOTT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Swivel-eyed loons hit back at PM

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY ; ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1787 words


DAVID CAMERON was told by Conservative activists last night that he must repair
the broken relationship between the party leadership and the grass roots branded
by one of his inner circle as "swivel-eyed loons".

One leading activist accused elements at the top of the party of "utter
contempt" for supporters, while a leading MP said activists were being treated
as "pariahs".

They spoke out after the Prime Minister suffered a series of setbacks that
reinforced claims that he and his inner circle were out of touch with the
concerns of core Conservatives. The blows included: Þ Lord Feldman, co-chairman
of the Conservative Party, became embroiled in a row after a senior Conservative
called Tory activists "mad, swivel-eyed loons" who were forcing MPs to take
hard-line positions on Europe and same-sex marriage; ÞAn ICM poll for The Sunday
Telegraph showed the public taking a more Eurosceptic line than Mr Cameron, with
46 per cent wanting to leave the European Union and 44 per cent calling for an
immediate "in/out" referendum. The survey also underlined the rise of Nigel
Farage and the UK Independence Party; ÞUp to 200 Tory MPs prepared to vote
against Mr Cameron's plans to allow same-sex couples to marry. At least three
Cabinet ministers are expected to join rebels in opposing at least some of the
Government's proposals.

Two issues - Europe and same-sex marriage - have been seized on by grassroots
activists to claim that Mr Cameron and his inner circle are "out of touch" with
the views of ordinary party members.

Last night, the chairman of Conservative Grassroots, a leading activists'
pressure group, said the Prime Minister and his inner circle lived in a
"Westminster bubble".

Relations between Mr Cameron's circle and the party's grass roots worsened as
Lord Feldman put himself at the centre of the row over comments about activists,
inevitably dubbed "swivelgate".

Yesterday, newspapers including The Daily Telegraph, The Times and the Daily
Mirror, quoted a senior figure who said Tory MPs were being forced into
hard-line views on Europe and same-sex marriage.

"There's really no problem. The MPs just have to do it because the associations
tell them to, and the associations are all mad swivel-eyed loons," said a
Conservative described as one of Mr Cameron's closest allies.

Lord Feldman, 47, who was appointed co-chairman of the party in 2010, denied
making the remarks after rumours circulated on social networking sites that he
was responsible. He admitted speaking to journalists after a private dinner for
Conservative Friends of Pakistan at the InterContinental Hotel in Westminster on
Wednesday night, but said it was "completely untrue" that he had called
activists "swivel-eyed loons".

Sources said the peer came out of a private room in the hotel and spoke to
journalists who were on a table in a public area with a "fifth man", understood
to be a senior civil servant. The "fifth man" was said to have said he could not
recollect the exact words used. The Daily Telegraph said it stood by its report.
It and the other newspapers have not named the member of Mr Cameron's circle
behind the slur.

Lord Feldman said: "There is speculation on the internet and on Twitter that the
senior Conservative Party figure claimed to have made derogatory comments by The
Times and the Telegraph is me.

"This is completely untrue. I would like to make it quite clear that I did not
nor have ever described our associations in this way or in any similar manner.
Nor do these alleged comments represent my view of our activists.

"On the contrary, in the last eight years of working for the party, I have found
them to be hard-working, committed and reasonable people. They are without
question the backbone of the party.

"I am very disappointed by the behaviour of the journalists involved, who have
allowed rumour and innuendo to take hold by not putting these allegations to me
before publication. I am taking legal advice."

The row carries uncomfortable echoes of last year's saga that saw Andrew
Mitchell, then the Conservative chief whip, accused of calling police officers
at Downing Street "plebs" - claims that he strongly denies.

Lord Feldman attended Haberdashers' Aske's Boys' School in Hertfordshire and
became a close friend of Mr Cameron when the pair were at Brasenose College,
Oxford, in the Eighties.

Last night, Grant Shapps, the Tory cochairman alongside Lord Feldman, described
the peer as a "good guy" who was "very straightforward and honest".

Mr Shapps said: "Andrew Feldman, the name that wasn't mentioned in the article
but in fact was swirling around the internet earlier, absolutely assures
everybody it wasn't him. I believe him."

Robert Woollard, a former chairman of Wycombe Conservative Association, said of
the remarks linked to Lord Feldman: "These are arrogant and pompous comments
that show the utter contempt some people in David Cameron's camp have for the
grass roots of our party."

The timing of the "swivel-eyed loon" row is potentially damaging. This Continued
on Page 2 NO 46 %DON'T KNOW 24 YES 30 Q How would you vote if there was a
referendum tomorrow, asking the question: 'Do you think that the UK should
remain a member of the EU?'

Continued from Page 1 week, Mr Cameron faces a new parliamentary showdown with
his party, with up to 200 Tory backbenchers expected to vote against his plans
to allow same-sex couples to marry.

Cabinet ministers are expected to be among the "rebels". Chris Grayling, the
Justice Secretary, indicated that he would support amendments to protect people
who spoke up for traditional marriage, while David Jones, the Welsh Secretary,
and Owen Paterson, the Environment Secretary, will both vote against the Bill at
its third reading in the Commons.

David Burrowes, the rebel leader who has written an article for The Sunday
Telegraph, below, said: "The impression I have from talking to colleagues is
that attitudes have hardened against the Government's plan since the initial
vote three months ago.

"There is also a good chance that the Lords will also throw this out when they
vote on the Bill next month."

He said the "loon" comments would only reinforce the feeling of alienation the
gay marriage plan has created among Tory supporters.

As well as opposition to the plan among Tory grassroots and back-bench MPs,
religious leaders have begun a new drive against the proposals.

A letter in today's Sunday Telegraph from more than 500 of Britain's imams
claims the move will "gravely affect the entire society" and adds: "Despite the
government's reassurance we believe that this will open the door for future laws
that will force imams to marry gay people."

The issue of Europe was also at the heart of the row.

In an interview with this newspaper, William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, rules
out any chance of the Conservatives forging a pact with Ukip ahead of the 2015
general election, a move supported by some Tory MPs. "We are not fighting the
election on the basis of pacts with others," Mr Hague says in the interview. He
also goes out of his way to lay down the law on Europe after declarations by two
cabinet ministers that they would vote to leave the EU if a referendum was held
now.

The Foreign Secretary was said by senior Tory sources to have been "furious"
after Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence
Secretary, made the comments last weekend as Mr Cameron was about to depart for
talks in Washington.

Both Mr Gove and Mr Hammond are suspected by MPs of being "on manoeuvres" to
position themselves as future party leaders - and to have backed a "Brexit" from
the EU to court the Tory Right.

Mr Hague, who has had the unofficial status of Conservative "deputy leader"
bestowed on him by Mr Cameron, says today: "The rest of the Cabinet will not be
answering hypothetical questions." He demands the party shows "unity" on the
issue in the coming months.

Rows about the future direction of the party's European policy have dogged Mr
Cameron since he entered Downing Street. Last week, the Conservatives published
a draft EU Referendum Bill - to enshrine plans for the 2017 vote in law - which
cannot be government policy because the Liberal Democrats do not support the
move.

Instead, it will be taken through the Commons by a Tory backbencher, James
Wharton, with the backing of Conservative ministers.

Today's ICM poll, with its strong eurosceptic message, provides little comfort
for Mr Cameron but also represents a blow for Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg. When
voters are asked the exact question Conservatives want to put to the public in
the 2017 referendum, "Do you think that the UK should remain a member of the EU?
", 46 per cent opt to come out, a higher figure than in other recent polls,
while just 30 per cent want to stay in.

The headline figure using ICM's "Wisdom Index" method - which asks voters to
predict the result of the next general election rather than which party they
support - puts Labour just three points ahead of the Tories, the party's
narrowest lead since the index was launched last year.

Labour fell four points from last month to 32 per cent, with the Conservatives
down one on 29 per cent and the Liberal Democrats also down one on 16 per cent.

Voters believe Ukip will win 15 per cent of the vote in the 2015 general
election - a high figure which underlines the party's recent good results in
parliamentary by-elections and local council ballots.

Mr Cameron, on 31 per cent, is the party leader most trusted to negotiate with
the EU on Britain's behalf. In second place is Mr Farage, marginally ahead of Mr
Miliband, although both men are on 18 per cent when numbers are rounded up. Mr
Clegg is languishing on just 4 per cent. In a further boost for the Eurosceptic
cause, 44 per cent want an "in/out" referendum immediately, although 29 per cent
are prepared to wait until 2017, the Prime Minister's preferred option. Just 9
per cent back the current stance of Labour and the Lib Dems, both of whom oppose
referendum plans.

In his interview, Mr Hague calls the Lib Dems "a bit inconsistent" because at
the 2010 general election their policy was for an "in/out" vote. "I think the
truth is that their commitment at the last election was only ever a device, they
weren't expecting the chip ever to be cashed."

He also calls on the Tories' coalition partners to "join us in agreeing the
right policy" so the current Referendum Bill could become a government Bill -
although there seems little or no chance of this happening.

Mr Hague attacks Ukip as a "fringe party" that does not have "the remotest
agenda for practical government". If the party were in power, he argues, Britain
would "be bankrupt more rapidly than it was getting under Gordon Brown".

Continued from Page 1 week, [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Calling grassroots stalwarts loons' is no way to heal divisions

BYLINE: Iain Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 738 words


Why is a senior Cameroon attacking Tory members? This latest episode tops a
deeply frustrating period for the Conservative leadership, with the Tory party
at Westminster increasingly bogged down in arguments with itself.

This week the gay marriage Bill comes back to the Commons, with a rebellion
involving MPs and even ministers anticipated. Forget the spin attempted by No 10
last week, that the Prime Minister's team is relaxed about the recent Tory
shenanigans on subjects such as Europe. A rebel amendment criticising the
Queen's Speech attracted the support of more than 100 Tory MPs, and the Prime
Minister has been forced to concede a draft Bill calling for an EU referendum.

But the comment by someone very close to David Cameron, that grassroots Tory
members are "mad, swivel-eyed loons", has inflamed the situation and infuriated
his MPs. Said one mainstream MP yesterday: "This individual should have been
fired by the Prime Minister by lunchtime. Attacking the members and activists we
have left is madness."

How damaging is it? It is certainly another gift to Ukip as it tries to woo
disaffected Tories. And once again, in terms of the broader electorate, the risk
for the Tories is that it makes them look like a rabble addicted to infighting.
But the worst damage will be inside the party.

The shrinking membership is the backbone of the party, made up of people who
give up their time to stuff envelopes, deliver leaflets and stand as
councillors. Insulting them is shockingly ill-advised, particularly at a moment
when Mr Cameron needs all the support he can get. His fiercest critics are
already saying that the "loon" slur proves the validity of their charge that the
dwindling band of so-called Tory modernisers have always viewed non-metropolitan
Conservatives with contempt.

Is that accusation fair? From early in his leadership it has been a problem. In
2007 when Mr Cameron picked a fight with many Conservative-inclined voters by
opposing calls for more grammar schools it wasn't enough for him to disagree
with his opponents, he had to call them "deluded". It established a pattern, and
both sides have become steadily more abusive about each other.

In the end, taking a cavalier approach to party management may turn out to be
his single biggest miscalculation. Rather than trying to find common ground and
persuade other Tories to unite around that, too often the Cameroons have seen
leadership in terms of a fight between "mods" and Right-wing "rockers". But it
is Mr Cameron's adoption of the policy of gay marriage that has most angered the
traditional wing of the party.

Will gay marriage go ahead? Almost certainly. It is likely that the measure will
in some form eventually become law with Labour support, although not before
another round of Conservative bloodletting. Another messy week of infighting at
Westminster is in prospect.

Tory opponents of the Bill are pushing an amendment, which outraged party
supporters of gay marriage say is designed to scupper their cherished reform. Mr
Cameron's decision to push a measure that is so divisive in his party looks
bizarre considering the number of other fronts on which he is under pressure.

How has the gay marriage issue affected party membership? Ministers and MPs swap
horror stories of the number of members lost by their local Conservative
associations. Party membership under Mr Cameron had already more than halved
before gay marriage but party insiders say that the added impetus generated by
the Bill means that it will not be long before it falls below the 100,000 mark.

To put that in context, for much of Margaret Thatcher's time as leader the
Tories had more than one million members, and when Mr Cameron became leader it
was well over 250,000. Lord Feldman, co-chairman of the Conservative Party,
launched a membership drive earlier this year, but this latest row will not
help.

How will Ed Miliband respond? At the moment all he has to do is sit back with a
smile on his face and enjoy the spectacle. However, although the Labour leader
can take some satisfaction in Tory discomfort, the rise of Ukip also presents
him with a challenge.

Labour is still leading in the polls, but it is doing so on a relatively small
share of the vote. Mr Miliband's personal ratings are poor and his party is not
widely trusted on the economy. Mr Cameron's best - increasingly vain - hope is
that his party calms down, and voters focus on Labour's weaknesses.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 19, 2013
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'Swivel-eyed loons hit back at PM

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY ; ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1822 words


DAVID CAMERON was told by Conservative activists last night that he must repair
the broken relationship between the party leadership and the grass roots branded
by one of his inner circle as "swivel-eyed loons".

One leading activist accused elements at the top of the party of "utter
contempt" for supporters, while a leading MP said activists were being treated
as "pariahs".

They spoke out after the Prime Minister suffered a series of setbacks that
reinforced claims that he and his inner circle were out of touch with the
concerns of core Conservatives. The blows included: Þ Lord Feldman, co-chairman
of the Conservative Party, became embroiled in a row after a senior Conservative
called Tory activists "mad, swivel-eyed loons" who were forcing MPs to take
hard-line positions on Europe and same-sex marriage; ÞAn ICM poll for The Sunday
Telegraph showed the public taking a more Eurosceptic line than Mr Cameron, with
46 per cent wanting to leave the European Union and 44 per cent calling for an
immediate "in/out" referendum. The survey also underlined the rise of Nigel
Farage and the UK Independence Party; ÞUp to 200 Tory MPs prepared to vote
against Mr Cameron's plans to allow same-sex couples to marry. At least three
Cabinet ministers are expected to join rebels in opposing at least some of the
Government's proposals.

Two issues - Europe and same-sex marriage - have been seized on by grassroots
activists to claim Mr Cameron and his inner circle are "out of touch" with
ordinary party members. Last night, the chairman of Conservative Grassroots, a
leading activists' pressure group, said the Prime Minister and his inner circle
lived in a "Westminster bubble".

Relations between Mr Cameron's circle and the party's grass roots worsened as
Lord Feldman put himself at the centre of the row over comments about activists,
inevitably dubbed "swivelgate".

Yesterday, newspapers including The Daily Telegraph, The Times and the Daily
Mirror, quoted a senior figure who said Tory MPs were being forced into hardline
views on Europe and same-sex mar-riage. "There's really no problem. The MPs just
have to do it because the associations tell them to, and the associations are
all mad swivel-eyed loons," said a Conservative described as one of Mr Cameron's
closest allies.

Lord Feldman, 47, who was appointed co-chairman of the party in 2010, denied
making the remarks after rumours circulated on social networking sites that he
was responsible. He admitted speaking to journalists after a private dinner for
Conservative Friends of Pakistan at the InterContinental Hotel in Westminster on
Wednesday night, but said it was "completely untrue" that he had called
activists "swivel-eyed loons".

Sources said the peer came out of a private room in the hotel and spoke to
journalists who were on a table in a public area with a "fifth man", understood
to be a senior civil servant. The "fifth man" was said to have said he could not
recollect the exact words used. The Daily Telegraph said it stood by its report.
It and the other newspapers have not named the member of Mr Cameron's circle
behind the slur.

Lord Feldman said: "There is speculation on the internet and on Twitter that the
senior Conservative Party figure claimed to have made derogatory comments by The
Times and the Telegraph is me. This is completely untrue. I would like to make
it quite clear that I did not nor have ever described our associations in this
way or in any similar manner. Nor do these alleged comments represent my view of
our activists.

"On the contrary, in the last eight years of working for the party, I have found
them to be hard-working, committed and reasonable people. They are without
question the backbone of the party. I am very disappointed by the behaviour of
the journalists involved, who have allowed rumour and innuendo to take hold by
not putting these allegations to me before publication. I am taking legal
advice."

A profile of Mr Cameron in the Financial Times last year reported he had used a
similar phrase, and "tells colleagues that anyone who wants to talk to him about
the EU is 'swivel-eyed'".

The current row carries echoes of last year's saga that saw Andrew Mitchell,
then the Tory chief whip, accused of calling police officers at Downing Street
"plebs" - claims that he strongly denies.

Lord Feldman attended Haberdashers' Aske's Boys' School in Hertfordshire and
became a close friend of Mr Cameron when the pair were at Brasenose College,
Oxford, in the Eighties. Last night, Grant Shapps, the Tory co-chairman
alongside Lord Feldman, described the peer as a "good guy" who was "very
straightforward and honest".

Mr Shapps said: "Andrew Feldman, the name that wasn't mentioned in the article
but in fact was swirling around the internet earlier, absolutely assures
everybody it wasn't him. I believe him."

Robert Woollard, a former chairman of Wycombe Conservative Association, said of
the remarks linked to Lord Feldman: "These are arrogant and pompous comments
that show the utter contempt some people in David Cameron's camp have for the
grass roots of our party."

The timing of the "swivel-eyed loon" row is potentially damaging. This Continued
on Page 2 NO 46 %DON'T KNOW 24 YES 30 Q How would you vote if there was a
referendum tomorrow, asking the question: 'Do you think that the UK should
remain a member of the EU?'

Continued from Page 1 week, Mr Cameron faces a new parliamentary showdown with
his party, with up to 200 Tory backbenchers expected to vote against his plans
to allow same-sex couples to marry.

Cabinet ministers are expected to be among the "rebels". Chris Grayling, the
Justice Secretary, indicated that he would support amendments to protect people
who spoke up for traditional marriage, while David Jones, the Welsh Secretary,
and Owen Paterson, the Environment Secretary, will both vote against the Bill at
its third reading in the Commons.

David Burrowes, the rebel leader who has written an article for The Sunday
Telegraph, below, said: "The impression I have from talking to colleagues is
that attitudes have hardened against the Government's plan since the initial
vote three months ago.

"There is also a good chance that the Lords will also throw this out when they
vote on the Bill next month."

He said the "loon" comments would only reinforce the feeling of alienation the
gay marriage plan has created among Tory supporters.

As well as opposition to the plan among Tory grassroots and back-bench MPs,
religious leaders have begun a new drive against the proposals.

A letter in today's Sunday Telegraph from more than 500 of Britain's imams
claims the move will "gravely affect the entire society" and adds: "Despite the
government's reassurance we believe that this will open the door for future laws
that will force imams to marry gay people."

The issue of Europe was also at the heart of the row.

In an interview with this newspaper, William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, rules
out any chance of the Conservatives forging a pact with Ukip ahead of the 2015
general election, a move supported by some Tory MPs. "We are not fighting the
election on the basis of pacts with others," Mr Hague says in the interview. He
also goes out of his way to lay down the law on Europe after declarations by two
cabinet ministers that they would vote to leave the EU if a referendum was held
now.

The Foreign Secretary was said by senior Tory sources to have been "furious"
after Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence
Secretary, made the comments last weekend as Mr Cameron was about to depart for
talks in Washington.

Mr Gove and Mr Hammond are suspected by MPs of being "on manoeuvres" to position
themselves as future party leaders - and to have backed a "Brexit" from the EU
to court the Tory Right.

Mr Hague, who has had the unofficial status of Conservative "deputy leader"
bestowed on him by Mr Cameron, says today: "The rest of the Cabinet will not be
answering hypothetical questions."

He demands the party shows "unity" on the issue in the coming months.

Rows about the future direction of the party's European policy have dogged Mr
Cameron since he entered Downing Street. Last week, the Conservatives published
a draft EU Referendum Bill - to enshrine plans for the 2017 vote in law - which
cannot be government policy because the Liberal Democrats do not support the
move.

Instead, it will be taken through the Commons by a Tory backbencher, James
Wharton, with the backing of Conservative ministers.

Today's ICM poll, with its strong eurosceptic message, provides little comfort
for Mr Cameron but also represents a blow for Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg. When
voters are asked the exact question Conservatives want to put to the public in
the 2017 referendum, "Do you think that the UK should remain a member of the EU?
", 46 per cent opt to come out, a higher figure than in other recent polls,
while just 30 per cent want to stay.

The headline figure using ICM's "Wisdom Index" method - which asks voters to
predict the result of the next general election rather than which party they
support - puts Labour just three points ahead of the Tories, the party's
narrowest lead since the index was launched last year.

Labour fell four points from last month to 32 per cent, with the Conservatives
down one on 29 per cent and the Liberal Democrats also down one on 16 per cent.

Voters believe Ukip will win 15 per cent of the vote in the 2015 general
election - a high figure which underlines the party's recent good results in
parliamentary by-elections and local council ballots.

Mr Cameron, on 31 per cent, is the party leader most trusted to negotiate with
the EU on Britain's behalf. In second place is Mr Farage, marginally ahead of Mr
Miliband, although both men are on 18 per cent when numbers are rounded up. Mr
Clegg is languishing on just 4 per cent. In a further boost for the Eurosceptic
cause, 44 per cent want an "in/out" referendum immediately, although 29 per cent
are prepared to wait until 2017, the Prime Minister's preferred option. Just 9
per cent back the current stance of Labour and the Lib Dems, both of whom oppose
referendum plans.

In his interview, Mr Hague calls the Lib Dems "a bit inconsistent" because at
the 2010 general election their policy was for an "in/out" vote. "I think the
truth is that their commitment at the last election was only ever a device, they
weren't expecting the chip ever to be cashed."

He also calls on the Tories' coalition partners to "join us in agreeing the
right policy" so the current Referendum Bill could become a government Bill -
although there seems little or no chance of this happening.

Last night Lord Howe, the former Chancellor, said: "The ratchet-effect of
Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the Conservative leadership is in effect
running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone Ukip, having allowed deep
anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party."

Continued from Page 1 week, [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 12, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

An EU referendum is the political mouse that roared;
Cameron's promise of a new deal has gained little traction and won him few
friends. To many eyes, it looks like compromise

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1176 words


Political absurdity is often the face of deep-rooted complexity; especially so
in the case of a coalition. This week, it is probable that an amendment
regretting the absence of an EU referendum Bill in the Queen's Speech will be
called, and force a most peculiar outcome.

As things stand, Tory backbenchers will be granted a free vote on the motion
tabled by two of their number, John Baron and Peter Bone, while members of the
Government will abstain. However, as The Sunday Telegraph reveals today, some
Lib Dem ministers are now expected to complicate matters further by voting
against, as their pro-EU convictions dictate.

This is not the first time that the dynamics of Coalition have spawned
psychedelic, multi-dimensional politics. In December 2010, as tuition fees gave
the Lib Dems their first bitter taste of government's moral quandaries, Vince
Cable came close to commending the reform to the House - and then abstaining on
it. As John Denham, then shadow business secretary, asked: "When was the last
time that a minister - a secretary of state and a member of the Cabinet - came
to the House to defend a policy that he drew up, on the same day on which he
told the BBC that he might not even vote for it?"

When indeed? To its latest dilemma, No 10's response has been Confucian in form:
"When you see a mouse come into a room, you can either say 'there's a mouse', or
you can jump on a table, screaming." Safe to say, I think, that the mouse in
this kung-fu riddle is the EU referendum, or perhaps the amendment itself, and
that the screaming is all the fuss that the political and media classes are
making.

The Prime Minister's distaste for panic has undoubtedly served him well over the
years, not least in the mind-numbing maze of bipartisan Government. The
Cameroons are right to complain that some in their party act as if the Tories
were not in coalition, or the Lib Dems could be safely ignored. That arrogance
cost the party the boundary review and perhaps the next election (the
constituency reorganisation would have been worth about 20 seats to the
Conservatives). What should worry Cameron is the resilient lack of trust between
himself and a significant core of Tory MPs. When they demand a draft referendum
Bill, they are saying: we take all your points about Clegg and the Lib Dems and
what you can and can't do, but even so - sorry, mate - we still want it in
writing.

Considered in this context, it is remarkable that the PM's speech on Britain's
relationship with the EU in January - promising the first referendum on our
membership since 1975 - made so little impact upon the debate it was meant to
calm, or upon the rise of the UK Independence Party. According to one loyalist
member of the Government: "The fact is that people don't trust us."

What Alastair Campbell once called "this huge stuff about trust" is the binding
force in all of this, at every level. The perception that Cameron broke his own
"cast-iron guarantee" to hold a referendum on the EU Lisbon Treaty compounded
the ugly legacy of MPs' expenses, Iraq, spin, sleaze, "Back to Basics" and much
else besides. This is an era of institutional frailty: Parliament, the press,
the financial sector, the BBC, all have been traumatised by scandal and deceit.
And never before have politicians been subject to such relentless scrutiny: the
tools of the digital revolution have the paradoxical effect of forcing honesty
upon those who govern, while reducing trust among the governed.

Against this backdrop, the sleek élites of the late 20th and early 21st
centuries already look dated.

Those who point at Boris Johnson or Nigel Farage and say they don't look like
men of government are only bolstering their credentials and their voter appeal.
The Mayor of London and the Ukip leader prosper precisely because they have the
scuffed honesty of amateurs - real human beings who have not been bred in
laboratories, and speak their mind rather than parrot the "line to take".

In reality, of course, both men are politicians to their fingertips; Boris is
the second-term mayor of a global city that last year hosted the Olympics, while
Farage is masterminding a deft electoral guerrilla strategy that suggests he has
talents that transcend saloon-bar charm and Barbour chic. But they understand
that a deeply suspicious electorate values "authenticity" more than anything
else.

Alongside the historic collapse of trust, Cameron has to confront a no less
dramatic shift in the foundations and fortunes of the EU. As the late Hugo Young
argued in his magisterial account of Britain's relationship with the rest of
Europe, This Blessed Plot, Eurosceptics were always open to the charge of "lack
of realism". Writing in 1998, Young observed: "The world they defended seemed,
in the end, to be nostalgic and narrow: assailed by demons, racked by
existential confusion."

But, 15 years on, their world and the EU's look very different. The Continent is
racked by the eurozone crisis, and it is no longer as easy to argue that Britain
outside the EU would suffer economically. As Lord Lawson wrote last week in his
Times article calling for exit: "The heart of the matter is that the relevant
economic context nowadays is not Europe but globalisation, including global free
trade, with the World Trade Organisation as its monitor."

Lawson is close to George Osborne, and his article reflects views that, it is
safe to assume, he has already discussed with senior Tories in the Coalition.
Michael Portillo's piece in the same newspaper was angrier, more overtly hostile
to Cameron's position and, in Latin style, scornful of today's Conservative
leadership: "They whinge about Europe, but don't have the self-confidence to
pull out." Portillo accused the political class of "defeatism" and invited the
reader to imagine "Margaret Thatcher approaching the issue in such an insincere
and political way".

At such moments, one recalls that Portillo is not only the father of Tory
modernisation - too rarely recognised as such by its beneficiaries - but was
also a close disciple of the Iron Lady. In arguing that there is a "fundamental
mismatch" between Britain's ambitions and those of the EU, one that cannot be
"resolved by a little renegotiation", he spoke, I suspect, for the majority of
Tory MPs and for a growing percentage of the population. Cameron's best line is
that Britain is in a "global race". It is getting harder with each passing month
to argue that our membership of the EU is a help, rather than a hindrance, to
our performance in that contest.

To his under-acknowledged credit, this PM has offered the public a referendum on
British membership. But his promise of a new deal, a fresh beginning worth
waiting for before we decide, has gained little traction and won few friends. To
too many eyes, it looks like compromise rather than half of the logic. This
week's amendment is only one of the many interventions, ploys and stunts he can
expect, intended to push him further, faster, on this central question of the
nation's identity. In politics, the mouse sometimes roars.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 12, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

There is no excuse to dodge a poll on Europe;
COMMENTARY For too long the public has been unable to express an opinion on
changing nature of EU, writes John Baron

BYLINE: John Baron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 998 words


THERE COMES a point when it becomes damaging for a government not to accept the
logic of a case. I suggest we have reached that point over Europe. My amendment
to the Queen's Speech - expressing regret that an EU Referendum Bill was not
included - presents the Prime Minister with a golden opportunity to regain the
initiative on this important issue.

If he were seen to support it, he would be doing both country and party a
service. Let this opportunity slip, and the matter will continue to cause
uncertainty.

For a year now, 100 Conservative colleagues and I have been encouraging the PM
to commit to legislation in this parliament for a referendum in the next. But
the commitment had to be both credible and believable. The 2017 referendum is
credible - it has an "out" option. But it is not yet believable.

Legislation would put this right. Many of us were therefore pleased when last
week the Prime Minister created the impression he was bringing forward the
legislation. We were consequently disappointed when no such legislation was
announced, hence the amendment I tabled on Thursday.

The Prime Minister made a historic pledge to the British people during his
January speech, and should receive full credit for being the first major party
leader to do so. Others will follow in his slipstream as we approach the next
General Election.

The penny will drop that a referendum is only right. The EU has fundamentally
changed since we first joined. It is still evolving. The answer from the
eurozone capitals to the crisis is "more Europe". Further political and economic
harmonisation is the cry.

But this is not why we joined. The EU's role in our daily lives has grown, yet
we have not stopped and asked: "Is this in our best interests?"

The Prime Minister's promise therefore genuinely re-flects the electorate's
desire to have their say on Europe, and the pledge of an "out" option on the
ballot paper gives it an edge of credibility that should serve the Prime
Minister well in his negotiations with our European partners.

However, where the Prime Minister's pledge falls down is its believability.
British voters are deeply sceptical of politicians making promises on Europe:
too many have been broken in the past.

People bitterly recall Labour's broken promise for a referendum on the EU
Constitution/Lisbon Treaty, and they also remember pledges in the Liberal
Democrats' 2010 Election manifesto.

Passing paving legislation in this parliament for a referendum in the next would
be a concrete way of demonstrating serious intent. Whilst it is true no
parliament can bind its successors, it would be very difficult for any incoming
leader to undo such a piece of popular legislation. The Prime Minister has
demonstrated he is open to persuasion.

In October 2011, he whipped his MPs against a back-bench debate on an EU
referendum. In June last year, when we began our campaign, the word "referendum"
had not even passed his lips.

Six months and a muchtrailed (and delayed) speech later, we now have a
referendum. Passing legislation in this parliament is a logical follow-through
of his pledge. It simply reinforces the Party's direction of travel. For 2017 is
a sensible timetable for the referendum. This allows for a full and informed
debate. But my amendment does not contradict those who may wish to hold a
referendum sooner. For my part, I am yet to make up my mind.

I certainly believe the lie fi-nally needs to be nailed that leaving the EU
would cost British industry millions of jobs. "Brexit" should hold no terrors.
We have increasing trade links with the highgrowth regions - often Commonwealth
countries - that lie outside Europe, and the EU knows that our trade defi-cit is
in its favour.

The Germans, French and Greeks will still want to sell us their cars, wine and
holidays. Likewise, the timetable allows time for renegotiation so that we can
sensibly assess the "in" option. An EU focused on trade and not politics would
certainly be an attractive option to many people.

Many of the reasons given for inaction do not stand up. Some argue that the
current arithmetic will not support legislation in this parliament. But there is
no downside to trying. I happen to think we may win.

Many sensible Labour MPs see the writing on the wall. The Liberals have made
previous manifesto promises. But whether successful or not, all MPs would have
to declare their hand, and the electorate would take note.

Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has maintained the Coalition Agreement prevents
the Government from introducing legislation. Yet same-sex marriage was not in
the agreement. There is little doubt the operation of the Coalition has upset
the normal order of government.

At various stages - notably over the AV referendum and House of Lords reform -
the Government has essentially split into two opposing camps.

This latitude may well allow David Cameron to give his ministers a free rein to
support our amendment.

The Prime Minister could legitimately say to his Liberal partners that the
situation was not of his making. They could vote as they please. But there
should be no doubt that, in the coming weeks, my colleagues and I will be
seeking every means possible to bring legislation to Parliament, through Private
Member's Bills, Presentation Bills and other avenues.

By being seen to support the amendment, in one stroke Mr Cameron would unite the
Party behind him, be seen to be leading from the front, and put Labour on the
defensive.

Most importantly, he would be doing the right thing for the country.

What fundamentally animates public opinion in favour of a referendum is not the
minutiae of individual EU directives, but the fact that for too long the
electorate has not been able to express an opinion on the changing nature of our
EU membership.

This week Parliament, and the Conservatives in particular, have a golden
opportunity to help right this wrong.

John Baron is Conservative MP for Basildon and Billericay

'David Cameron would be doing the right thing for the country'

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 12, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Article 50 is the only way to tackle this EU mess

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 701 words


In all the brouhaha over a Euro-referendum unleashed in the wake of that surge
in the polls by Ukip, it is hard to know who is talking the emptiest fluff. We
really are paying the price for all those years when our politicians and media
were so keen to bury our European system of government out of sight that they
have little idea of the harsh realities of the situation in which we find
ourselves.

We have Tory MPs piling in to demand an in-out referendum before 2015, which
they are not going to get. We have former political heavyweights such as Lord
Lawson, Denis Healey and Norman Lamont queuing up to say that if there were such
a referendum, they would vote to leave. We've even got Nick Clegg and those poor
little BBC presenters locked in a 13-year-old time warp, trying to tell us that,
if we did leave, 3.5 million British jobs would vanish because our trade with
our European neighbours would somehow dry up overnight.

None of this bears any more relation to where we actually are, as one of the 27
fully signed-up members of the EU, than David Cameron's threefold dollop of
wishful thinking that, if only we re-elect him in 2015, and if only he can
somehow persuade his EU colleagues to hand back a few unspecified powers of
government -in breach of the most basic principle on which the EU was founded -
he can somehow lead the "Yes" campaign in 2017 to a referendum vote for Britain
to stay in.

It is true we may one day by law have to have a referendum, whichever party is
in power, because sooner or later the drive to give Brussels even more powers in
its efforts to save the doomed euro will require a new treaty. But in the
meantime, Mr Cameron is terrified that, unless we stay in the EU, we will lose
the right to trade freely with its single market. Lord Lawson, in his own
muddled way, seems equally to think that, by leaving, we would indeed be
excluded from the single market, but that this would be OK because it would
somehow bring us "a positive economic advantage".

The truth is that there is only one way we can get what they, and most people,
seem to want, but none of them, except occasionally Nigel Farage, ever mentions
it. The only way we can compel our EU partners to negotiate a new relationship
that would still give us access to the single market is by invoking Article 50
of the Lisbon Treaty. Only thus can we negotiate precisely the kind of
relationship already enjoyed, in their different ways, by the two most
prosperous countries in Europe, Norway and Switzerland, which trade as freely
with the rest of the EU as we do, but without the rest of that political baggage
that inspires such growing resentment not just in Britain, but also in many
other EU member states.

This, of course, catches out Mr Cameron, because Article 50 can only be invoked
by a country announcing its wish to leave the EU. He flatly refuses to recognise
that it is perfectly possible to continue trading freely with the EU without
belonging to it.

Lord Lawson falls into the opposite trap by also imagining that leaving the EU
means being excluded from the single market, although he seems to think this
could be an advantage because we could somehow make up for it by increasing our
trade with the rest of the world. But both these men, like countless others, are
living in cloud cuckoo land. They will not bring their thinking back to earth by
looking hard-headedly at the rules of the game.

The only way we can now face up to the reality of the plight we are in is by
putting Article 50 at the very centre of the national debate. It is the only way
we can get the best of both worlds that so many people say they want.

Unless we do so, we are doomed to wander on in a fog of wishful thinking that
can only continue to leave us with the worst of all worlds - ruled by a
dysfunctional system of government that we increasingly resent, but refuse to
understand. In the words of Lady Thatcher I have quoted before, from her book
Statecraft, that we should ever have become absorbed into this "European
superstate" will one day be seen as "a political error of the first magnitude".

If we really wish to remedy that error, the only practical way that can be
brought about is by invoking Article 50.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The solution lies here: Prime Minister Gordon Brown signing the Lisbon
Treaty in 2007
AFP/GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 12, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip benefits from the Conservative fight for the centre ground;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 588 words


SIR - Janet Daley writes about the political urge to occupy the centre ground
(Opinion, May 5).

This reminds me of the "icecream van" theory, whereby two ice-cream vans on a
beach have to position themselves next to each other at the midpoint of the
beach in order to deny as much territory as possible to the competition.

At the time it seemed to me that there was a danger of holidaymakers deciding
that it was not worth the trek to the van for an ice cream. Now another van has
set up closer to us.

Peter Gregory Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire

SIR - In your editorial last week (May 5) you said that "David Cameron is right
to continue to try to reach out to centrist voters" but I am confused as to
which centrist voters he is reaching out to. If something over half the
electorate seeks a referendum on Europe and supports traditional marriage and
controlled immigration, it follows that something over half of "centrist voters"
also share these views.

However one interprets the election results, many of those who voted Ukip must
be "centrist".

Clearly, they don't feel they are part of the centre to which Mr Cameron is
reaching out.

Therein lies the problem. R P Gullett Bledlow, Buckinghamshire

SIR - Bruce Anderson's comment about Ukip being a "ragbag of rum coves"
(Opinion, May 5) echoed the political establishment's patronising complacency in
reacting to Ukip's polling a quarter of the votes cast in local elections.

Never mind that its share of the vote far outstripped the Lib Dems and ran close
to that of the Conservatives and Labour. The political classes regard the Ukip
vote as a tantrum and predict that voters will soon return to the normality of
the humdrum political consensus at Westminster, in alliance with the governing
Brussels bureaucrats.

Metropolitan mainstream politicians appear out of touch with the concerns of
ordinary people. Nigel Farage's connection to popular opinion and his leadership
of Ukip are preferable to the grey uniformity and plain unlikeability of the
other parties.

David Saunders Sidmouth, Devon

SIR - Over the last six months several of your editorials have urged David
Cameron to "stop talking about it and start doing it", or words to that effect.

You must know by now that David Cameron is a talker, not a doer, and a
completely and utterly naive one too.

Perhaps a qualification for a prospective MP is that they should have held a
successful job in the real world before entering politics.

Graham Brown Nottingham

SIR - Mr Cameron's offer of an EU referendum is meaningless: it is predicated
upon there having been a negotiation for the EU to abandon the basis on which it
was formed, and already largely exists: that of ever-closer union towards a
single European state.

He has further made clear that, whatever the outcome, he would not contemplate
withdrawal. Bertie Maddocks Aughton, Lancashire SIR - William Hague's article
advocating more of the same in Conservative policy (Commentary, May 5) calls to
mind the schoolboy trick of putting your hands over your ears and shouting "la
la la - I can't hear you".

He demonstrates the same behaviour as when the English talk to foreigners (here
read electors): don't bother trying to understand them, just keep saying the
same thing, but louder.

Martin Vince Gosport, Hamsphire

SIR - Senior Conservative and Labour MPs may mock Ukip as being "one-policy
clowns", but that policy of leaving the EU could just be the most important and
sensible notion in the last 40 years of British politics.

John Batty Middle Assendon, Oxfordshire

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 12, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Senior Tories should have their say on Europe;
The Sunday Telegraph

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 608 words


The nature of Britain's relationship with the European Union is one of the most
important issues of our time. It affects not just the health of our economy, but
also how we govern ourselves and our identity as a nation state. That is why any
debate about its future should be approached both seriously and honestly.

The British people have always been enthusiastic about the EU as a trading
partner and a single market - this is what our country opted for in the 1975
referendum. But political integration has never received a true mandate from the
British voter. For this reason, The Sunday Telegraph has made the case for a
proper renegotiation of the terms of our membership of the EU. We have also
argued that the results of any such deal should be put to a referendum.

On January 23, David Cameron promised the country that if he is re-elected in
2015 he will negotiate "a new settlement" with the EU and then hold an in/out
referendum on those terms. It was a bold speech that captured well the thoughts
of those British voters who, as Mr Cameron said, see "the European Union is a
means to an end... not an end in itself".

However, Mr Cameron's pledge has not entirely settled the issue. So long as
Labour and the Lib Dems remain opposed to a referendum, the likelihood of having
one depends, first, on the Tories winning a majority at the next general
election and, second, on the re-elected Prime Minister keeping his promise. The
uncertainty inherent in that equation has motivated some Tory backbenchers to
table an amendment for debate in Parliament next week that regrets the failure
of the Queen's Speech to include a commitment to a referendum on Europe. In this
newspaper, Lord Forsyth argues that delaying a referendum for too long would
produce a "costly period of uncertainty", and he urges the Prime Minister to
"introduce a Bill now to give the British people their say".

Whatever the merits of having a referendum before the general election, or of
committing the next government to hold one after 2015, this debate must be
approached with transparency. It is right that Mr Cameron will allow
Conservative backbench MPs a free vote on the amendment, but it is not right
that those Tories on the Government payroll will be expected to abstain.

We understand the logic of this strategy: abstention avoids the embarrassing
spectacle of senior Tories voting against each other on this emotive issue.
However, a subject of this importance demands openness. The public needs to know
what individual Cabinet members think about our relationship with the EU -
abstention effectively shuts down debate, as if powerful, influential
policymakers have no opinion one way or the other. Not only is that
undemocratic, but it is also politically short-sighted. Every senior Tory who
abstains will probably spend the next few weeks being repeatedly asked by the
media how they would have voted if they could have. It would be far better to
have a frank debate now, rather than delaying the matter and allowing
uncertainty to prevail.

One of the reasons for the success of Ukip in the recent local elections is that
voters are hungry for greater honesty from their politicians. For all of Ukip's
policy weaknesses, its leader, Nigel Farage, strikes some people as being
straightforward about what he believes.

By contrast, if Conservatives in the Government refrain from expressing a view
in an amendment vote, they risk giving the impression that they put politics
before principle. When it comes to a debate about the very future of our
country, that is not good enough.

It's far better to have a frank debate now rather than allow uncertainty to
prevail

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 12, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHAT THE BIG BEASTS HAVE SAID ABOUT A REFERENDUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 285 words


LORD LAWSON OF BLABY

The heart of the matter is that the very nature of the European Union, and of
this country's relationship with it, has fundamentally changed after the coming
into being of the European monetary union and the creation of the eurozone, of
which - quite rightly - we are not a part. That is why, while I voted "in" in
1975, I shall be voting "out" in 2017.

BORIS JOHNSON

If we're honest, democratically it would be a shot in the arm because people
would suddenly feel yes, we are running our own destiny again.

LORD LAMONT OF LERWICK

Basically, I would want to be out of almost everything other than just having a
commercial relationship with Europe. There is a mismatch with Britain. It is
inconsistent with our parliamentary accountability and democracy.

DAVID CAMERON

This government's legislative programme is founded on the Coalition Agreement
which did not include legislating in this parliament for an in-out referendum.
For the Government to be able to bring forward the type of legislation you
propose, we would require the agreement of our Coalition partners which, as
things stand, is not forthcoming.

LORD FORSYTH OF DRUMLEAN

We need to free business from bureaucratic regulation and regain control of our
own borders and our tax, welfare and employment law. The Prime Minister should
put his country before the Coalition and introduce a Bill now to give the
British people their say.

The referendum, were it to occur, would not be simply about withdrawing from the
EU or going on as we are. It would really be about pulling out, or in due course
entering political union. That is why I would vote "no" and fervently hope that
the British have more guts than those who govern us.

MICHAEL PORTILLO

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BBC/STEVE PESKETT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 12, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Take it or leave it time for Tories;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Iain Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 937 words


Why is David Cameron's policy on the EU unravelling?

The Prime Minister hoped he had dealt with the Conservatives' European troubles.
Earlier this year he committed himself, if his party wins the next election, to
leading a renegotiation of British terms of membership of the EU and then
putting the results to the test in a referendum. But the continuing rise of Ukip
and the interventions last week made by several Conservative "big beasts" have
reawakened a debate in the Tory party about how to deal with the twin threat of
Nigel Farage and the power of Brussels.

Two former chancellors, Lord Lawson and Lord Lamont, and former defence
secretary Michael Portillo, all suggested they would vote to leave the EU or
urged the Prime Minister to bring forward the timetable for attempting a
renegotiation with the EU. Now Tory backbenchers are putting pressure on the
Prime Minister by pushing for a vote on an early referendum in the Commons next
week, during the debate on the new legislative programme.

How will No 10 respond?

The amendment by backbenchers puts the Prime Minister on the spot. As The Sunday
Telegraph reveals today, the plan is for the government payroll vote - ministers
and ministerial aides drawn from the ranks of the parliamentary party - to be
ordered to abstain, while backbenchers are allowed a free vote.

Isn't that somewhat bizarre?

Yes. If ministers do abstain en masse it will mean the Tory front bench
declining to rally to the defence of its own legislative programme. Instead they
will be standing aside while some of their own MPs attack it. This might
reinforce one of the criticisms made of the Prime Minister, that he is more
interested in short-term tactics than he is in big arguments. Although, as his
supporters point out, the stresses and strains caused by the Coalition do
necessitate compromises.

A government minister said: "I'm afraid abstaining does show the weakness of the
Prime Minister. He can't force ministers to vote against this amendment because
some of us would walk out." Another said that an abstention would be a
"dignified compromise" but acknowledged it would look as though the Tory leader
had lost control of his parliamentary party and as though he was not in a
sufficiently strong position to drill his own Cabinet.

Is this damaging for the Tories?

On one level, no. To many voters worried about other subjects, such as the cost
of living, welfare, public services and the economy, it must seem as though
these Eurosceptic shenanigans mainly involve men called Nigel (Farage and
Lawson) having an irrelevant or incomprehensible argument about the finer points
of EU membership. However, the risk is that what some of those involved regard
as a perfectly healthy debate ends up leaving the Tory party looking like a
rudderless rabble ahead of the next general election, which is now less than two
years away. Until the latest Conservative agonising over the EU, it had seemed
as though the Tories had rallied somewhat, having found subjects such as welfare
reform and Labour's weakness on the economy around which they could unite. They
also seemed to have arrived at a position on the EU - the pledge at the next
election of renegotiation and then a referendum - that the various strands of
opinion in the party could sign up to.

Can Mr Cameron get back on track?

Part of the difficulty is that with tensions increasing, as Ukip surges, it is
not going to be easy to reconcile Tories with different views. Tory MPs who are
in favour of the UK staying in the EU, or who back the Prime Minister's position
on renegotiation after 2015, have been growing increasingly annoyed at their
outspoken Eurosceptic colleagues' machinations on the subject. "The nutters are
in the driving seat. Are they trying to hand the next election to Labour?" said
one MP. Another said there was despair on the part of "mainstream" MPs that Mr
Cameron was unwilling to confront his internal opponents. "He will not make the
argument even when he has the right policy." By contrast, some Eurosceptic MPs
think they are doing the Tory Party a favour by endeavouring to move it to a
Ukip-style policy of advocating withdrawal.

What would Mr Cameron's renegotiation involve?

So far it is hard to tell exactly. The Prime Minister says in broad terms he
wants substantial powers back from the EU, but as Lord Lawson underlined last
week, there is no guarantee he would achieve very much. At William Hague's
instigation the Foreign Office is in the process of conducting an audit of the
impact of EU powers on Britain and it will be published next year, as a
precursor to a debate on what kind of remodelled relationship the UK might have
with the rest of Europe.

Is Labour on stronger ground?

No, not at the moment. Again the Prime Minister can draw comfort from Ed
Miliband being in a muddle. The Labour leader has been determined not to
countenance a referendum on Britain leaving or staying in the EU, on the grounds
that he regards continued membership as being unquestionably in the national
interest. Senior figures in the shadow cabinet are deeply concerned that this
could leave Labour vulnerable at the next election by emphasising that the party
is reluctant to trust voters on the EU, a risky strategy when a large portion of
the electorate says it is sick of being patronised by the established parties.
If Mr Miliband refuses to alter course, at the next election Mr Cameron will
still be able to say that the only realistic way of getting a vote on the EU is
electing a Tory government. If, that is, the various elements of the
Conservative Party are still talking to each other by then.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 5, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain leads Europe for foreign investment;
COMMENTARY

BYLINE: STEVE VARLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 927 words


ANNIE is big, bold, beautiful and was built on Teesside. She's been tunnelling
underneath the streets of London creating a new route for cross-Channel trains
for the past decade.

As she chews towards her destination, she is further opening up the important
channels of communication that exist between Britain and Europe.

At the end of last year she was joined by eight other giant boring machines,
including Ada and Phyllis toiling in the west, Elizabeth and Victoria devouring
underground in the east, and Sophia working quietly in the south.

As these machines tunnel their way underneath London, they are carving out the
essential new infrastructure that so many investors around the world cite as
being key to capital confidence and investing in Britain.

It's not just the engineering and construction industries that make us great as
a nation but our services industry too.

As the British leader of a global professional services business with
connections into the emerging markets, our offices up and down the country
provide a global gateway for our clients who are looking to expand overseas and
attract foreign investment.

Harnessing British business, our infrastructure, people and their important
skills, will be at the forefront of international finance leaders' and chief
executives' minds this Thursday at the annual Global Investment Conference
(GIC), hosted by the UK Government.

The guests at GIC, one of Britain's biggest business summits, will discuss how
we can boost business investment and global economic growth, while showcasing
Britain's attractions as a leading destination for investment.

When I address the summit, my message will be that Britain has made some
exceptional progress in the past few years in improving its standing as a
destination for foreign direct investment (FDI).

According to the latest annual Ernst & Young (EY) European Investment Monitor,
Britain has been the leading country in Europe for FDI both for the numbers of
projects and for the amount of employment for the past 10 years.

This is remarkable testament to the openness and international orientation of
the British economy.

Our country's ability to win vital investment has been a crucial source of
pride, job-creation and growth over many years.

But now we have a real fight on our hands if we wish to retain our coveted
decade-long lead as the number one European investment destination for FDI.

In 2011 the number of projects into Britain fell by 4pc, with total projects in
Europe rising 7pc. And the gap between Britain and its peers, especially the
power house of Germany, has been narrowing year-on-year.

It is clear that as the world recovers from the worst financial crisis in a
generation, the international environment has become more uncertain.

Recent British economic data tell us that we have performed poorly in our
European export markets.

The EY ITEM Club has predicted that Britain would have to wait until 2015 before
exported produce started contributing positively to economic growth.

The trend has been exacerbated by weak demand from Europe, which continues to be
one of our strongest trading partners.

Competitive pressure on Britain is clearly intensifying.

But I remain confident that Britain can and will retain its leading position in
Europe.

There are numerous reasons for this, including real progress on the British
ambition to become one of the most competitive corporate tax regimes in the G20.

I know of more than 40 multinational companies, for example, that have been
looking to undertake global and regional headquarter relocations into Britain.
They have the potential to bring £1bn of additional annual tax revenues and more
than 2,000 high value senior management jobs to the country.

The euro crisis also provides some opportunities for the UK, with investments
appearing lower risk than in the eurozone and fiscally stressed euro states
starting to invest more overseas to avoid troubles at home.

This situation presents openings for us to sell our advantages as an FDI
location to investors in Europe and beyond.

The debate about Britain's membership of the European Union has been cited by
many commentators as a potentially significant factor in future business
investment decisions.

Yet, what I'm hearing in the market is that renegotiating our relationship with
the EU would actually have little negative impact on foreign investment
decisions into the UK.

In an EY survey of 300 investors from around the world - to be released in June
- we asked their reaction to Britain moving to a renegotiated and looser
relationship with the EU.

The difference in investor attitudes across the world was really quite
surprising. Only 36pc of investors from Western Europe said reduced integration
with the EU would make the UK more attractive as an FDI location.

However, both North American and Asian investors were much more positive about
the opportunity.

Some 72pc of US and 66pc of Asian investors said that a renegotiated
relationship would actually improve the attractiveness of Britain as an FDI
location.

No doubt this will be a major topic of discussion on Thursday.

Whatever the outcome of a potential referendum on UK/EU relations, British
business must stay the course.

Britain, as the recent campaign said, is GREAT. It is open for business and we
have a lot to be proud of.

Anyone seeking to challenge our leading position in the global race may just
have Annie to contend with!

Steve Varley is the UK chairman and UK & Ireland managing partner of Ernst &
Young

We have a real battle on our hands if we wand to retain our coveted position

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 5, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How the Tories can win back the country;
A referendum on Europe, help for business, tax breaks for mothers, less talk and
more action, or just keep the party steady as she goes -Tories tell Robert Watts
what they must do to counter the rise of Ukip

BYLINE: Robert Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 1786 words


BARON HURD OF WESTWELL

Former foreign secretary

"The Prime Minister and No 10 should stick to the strategy that they have set
out. Ukip did better than I expected they would, but a change of course to the
Right to address that could be fatal. We have seen the rise of small parties
like this in local elections before and we will see it again. Local elections
have traditionally been a time when incumbent governments get a kick in the
teeth. It's important not to abandon our course."

LORD MACGREGOR OF PULHAM MARKET

Former education and transport secretary

"We've got to stick to our guns on expenditure - we must get borrowing down.
There is a real danger that if we don't do that, overseas lenders will put the
pressure on and interest rates will have to rise. We should drop the commitment
to spend 0.7 per cent of our GDP on foreign aid. This spending should not be
rising in these economic circumstances. Every programme should be under scrutiny
at the moment."

PETER LUFF

MP for Mid Worcestershire and former defence minister, below

"I don't believe we need to change our policies, but we've not been disciplined
enough about explaining what we are trying to do. Many people still don't
understand what we're really about.

"We are not about deficit reduction for the sake of it, we are about mending the
private sector and inspiring growth. We need to be very disciplined about
sticking to that agenda.

"As part of that, we should talk up our welfare reform - which is very popular
with voters - and Michael Gove's education reforms.

"But we must not let Europe and immigration dominate the debate. If we are going
to win back the working class and women's votes, talking about Europe and
immigration simply won't help. If we emphasise those great issues of jobs,
welfare reform and aspiration, we can definitely win."

BERNARD JENKIN,  MP for Harwich and North Essex and chairman of the Commons
Public Administration Committee

"The UK's now dysfunctional and corrosive relationship with the EU, and its
associated Court of Human Rights, enrages otherwise reasonable people. It saps
the national morale, and any respect for main parties at Westminster. Ukip's
successful 'plague-onall your-houses' anti-politics draws on the disengagement,
despair and anger at Westminster politicians.

"We pretend to govern but the EU has us tied in knots. We are in office, but not
in power. Ever since Margaret Thatcher was ousted from No 10, for declaring she
would not sign up for 'European Union', we have had 20 years of fear,
prevarication, and evasion about this. Voters can smell our fear and weakness.
Politicians seem to them to have lost any sense of what sort of country we
really are."

STEVE BAKER, MP for Wycombe

"I now understand more clearly than I ever did before why in the House of
Commons chamber so much vitriol flows from the Labour Party towards the Liberal
Democrats. That's a family feud on the Left. We now have a family feud on the
Right.

"I think it is time for people who have this country's best interests at heart
to think very carefully about why they are walking away from the Conservative
Party. I am still convinced that the Conservative Party is the only party that
is capable of forming a government that is capable of doing what this country
needs.

"We need to spend a lot of time making sure people understand the consequences
of voting for Ukip.

"It has made a load of unfunded pledges and they are just helping Leftwing
parties that would borrow more, spend more and make this country worse off. We
have to expose what Ukip would mean to our country in practice."

JOHN REDWOOD, MP for Wokingham and former cabinet minister, right

"Leaving a referendum until 2017 is not going to work. I think a mandate
referendum has got to be held otherwise the public will remain extremely fed up
that we cannot extradite people when we want to, we can't control migration
flows from Europe, we can't choose our own benefit entitlement system, that we
have to have very dear energy because of the EU and that we can't turn back the
avalanche of regulation from the EU. There are so many pinch points from the EU
that really all politics is European now. If you don't sort this European
question out, no British government is going to have a good time."

PHILIP DAVIES, MP for Shipley

"The people who are voting Ukip in my constituency are people who want to see a
much clearer, sharper Conservative message. They're sick to the back teeth of
Nick Clegg and the Lib Dem tail wagging the Conservatives' dog. They want the
Conservative Party to assert itself more in the Coalition. We certainly need
some tax cuts so we can put some money in people's pockets and get the economy
moving. We also need real spending cuts, a tougher approach on crime and
immigration.

Do all that and there would not be much point in anyone voting Ukip."

CAROL DAVIES, Chairman of Wells Conservative Association

"Actually the mood of the party and of supporters on the doorsteps is quite
upbeat.

Most people at a local level and, I think, at a national level still back the
deficit reduction plan.

"However, I would urge David Cameron to do something more concrete about Europe
to really hit Ukip where it hurts. Voters have not bought his idea of a
referendum after the next election.

"He should also do more to support the family. Mums who stay at home are feeling
particularly left out. Many have lost their child benefit. Some more should
definitely be done on child care."

DAVID RUFFLEY

MP for Bury St Edmunds

"Many of us on the Right of the party have been arguing for the mandate
referendum since last summer. Those of us who thought the Ukip insurgency would
be as strong as it was in these council elections always thought that David
Cameron would have to take a tougher line on Europe. A mandate referendum is the
way to do it."

STEPHEN HARALDSEN, Chairman of Copeland Conservatives in Cumbria

"I urge people to hold fast and keep the faith. We are well set to win in 2015.
On policy area after policy area, we are winning the argument. The public are
with us on welfare reform and on deficit reduction, and it looks like they are
also with us on Michael Gove's education reforms.

"That's not to say that it will be an easy ride ahead. Our biggest export market
is heading into recession again, but the reception I had from voters in the
run-up to these local elections makes me optimistic."

RICHARD DRAX, MP for South Dorset

"We need something to indicate to a disbelieving public that we mean business on
this crucial issue of the EU.

"We've got to tell people that they are going to get a choice and that they are
going to get a choice with us. Some members of our party need to be reminded
what Conservatives stand for.

"People are getting tired of words. What they want is action. The crucial thing
is we've got to do something now to reassure voters that we mean business on a
referendum. That is why I think the campaign for a mandate referendum is a good
one."

JULIAN LEWIS, MP for New Forest East

"I think the party needs to remember what happened to Michael Foot's Labour
Party in 1983. Labour moved so far away from its mainstream supporters that the
SDP was formed and as a result what would have been a comfortable victory for
Margaret Thatcher turned into a landslide.

"Too often the Conservative leadership has taken the view that we must move to
the centre because no one on the Right has anywhere else to go. Well, now they
have got somewhere - they are going to Ukip."

LAURA PERRINS 32, a former barrister and mother of two from East Dulwich, above,
who has previously voted for the Conservative Party

"To many middle class people the Government looks so out of touch. Removing
child benefit for higher-rate taxpayers upset a lot of people as it was hitting
many families with incomes of as little as £50,000 - that doesn't go far when
you have three children and the cost of living is rising - especially in London.
I find it diffi-cult to see David Cameron winning a majority from here, but
introducing that transferable tax allowance for married couples with caring
duties would help.

"This would go some way to recognising caring duties in the tax system and the
symbolism of it is important. The Government needs to be about more than cutting
the deficit and consider what type of society it wants; a little more compassion
would be a good start. Personally, I will not vote for them unless they
introduce a transferable allowance for parents who care for their children at
home to slightly lighten the unfair tax burden single-income families carry."

HENRY SMITH, MP for Crawley

"What is clear from these elections is that people want there to be a referendum
on our membership of the EU sooner rather than later. I think that would be in
the interests of the country and a wise thing for the Conservative Party to
pursue. If we push for a referendum bill and Labour and the Lib Dems support it
then we get that referendum. If they don't back it, they send a powerful message
to the country.

"In Crawley, we lost three county council electoral divisions to Labour because
Ukip split the local Right-of-centre vote. If a referendum isn't addressed soon,
Ukip will continue to take lots of Conservative votes and let Ed Miliband in the
back door."

GUY HORDERN

Chairman of Edgbaston Conservative Association and senior figures in the
Conservative Grassroots pressure group

"I hope a Conservative majority is still possible for 2015, but the Government's
pursuit of gay marriage has made that much less likely.

"It has caused a lot of damage. I have seen polling that suggests one in four
people who voted Conservative in 2010 would not do so in 2015 - just because of
this issue."

"The best thing he could do for the party's prospects now is to drop this
legislation straight away.

"I think it would help if David Cameron revived his Big Society agenda. It was a
very good idea, especially at a time of austerity for the public finances, and
could resonate with many people."

CHRISTIAN MAY, 26, a political campaigner and postgraduate student in London

"The most effective thing Mr Cameron could do is stop tinkering with nonsense
like legislating on cigarette packets and, instead, focus squarely on the cost
of living and blue collar Conservative issues.

"Increasingly, Downing Street seems to be about David Cameron's friends and sort
of intellectual elite.

"He should appoint more people to his policy unit from the back benches who seem
more in touch with their constituents and understand how important lowering fuel
duty and other taxes really are.

"The Government should increase the income tax threshold, introduce tax
allowance for married couples, provide more rates relief for small businesses
and do more to help people feeling squeezed."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHRISTOPHER PLEDGER/EDDIE MULHOLLAND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 5, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A crisis is coming in the EU and the Tories can exploit it;
You need to be brainy to swear effectively. Just ask Iain Duncan Smith There is
a tide in the affairs of men, and it has turned David Cameron has more room for
manoeuvre on Europe than most Tory leaders before him

BYLINE: BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1160 words


Ken and Nige could be good muckers. It is easy to imagine them lighting up
outside the Fox and Hounds, on Middle England Common. Nigel jabs his thumb in
the direction of the pub sign and says: "Would you believe it, Ken, mate? We've
had a Tory prime minister for three years, but hunting's still banned, we can't
smoke in the pub - and soon the vicar will be forced to marry woofters."

Europe has destroyed any possibility of such a friendship, just as it destroyed
Ken Clarke's chances of becoming PM. But it was foolish of him to describe Ukip
as clowns. Although Nigel Farage is a cheeky chappie leading a ragbag of rum
coves, he never wanted to join the eurozone. Forget mere clownishness; the euro
would have been a grievous threat to the UK, far worse than the errors which
some bankers committed. As the last of the EU-hicans, Ken Clarke has become a
national treasure. But he and his fellow federasts are in no position to impugn
anyone else's political judgment, even Mr Farage's.

Apropos of grievous threats, David Cameron is taking Ukip seriously. He is
confident that he can recover by the next election, and certain that this will
not happen automatically. There is a threepronged strategy: economic recovery,
popular social measures, and Europe.

The economy is crucial. This explains the PM's reluctance to launch a political
offensive during the past few months. Most voters want to know when the recovery
will start and that is not a question which he has been able to answer.
Recently, however, there have been some hints of green shoots. It may be that a
cautious recovery is under way. But "caution" is the word. There will be no
early dramatic effect on living standards. Fortunately for Mr Cameron, he does
not have to cope with unrealistic expectations; the public mood is one of
grumbling realism. When the time comes, it should be possible to persuade a lot
of voters that because they have made the sacrifices and endured the austerity,
the country has turned the corner - and that it would be madness to turn back.

There are other measures which can be used to cheer people up. The welfare
reforms are popular, as the education reforms will be when they are properly
explained. There is going to be a tougher immigration policy. This will not be a
lurch to the Right. It will be a lurch towards common sense. We should admit
reasonable numbers of people who will be an asset to the country, and exclude
those who would be a liability. The Government will try to use the limited
economic recovery and the specific social measures to persuade decent,
hard-working people that it is on their side.

Then there is Europe. David Cameron had hoped to avoid a major row on that
issue, not because he is a closet Europhile, but because he has seen the damage
that Europe has inflicted on his party. It has made trouble for almost every
Tory leader and premier since 1957. But politicians cannot always choose their
agenda; Europe has forced its way on to the PM's. Equally, there is a tide in
the affairs of men, and it has now turned. So David Cameron may have more room
for manoeuvre on Europe than most of his predecessors enjoyed.

Before the last election, he withdrew his commitment to a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty, because he had no choice. The others had all ratified it and
would have refused to reopen the matter, even if Mr Cameron had threatened
withdrawal.

At that time, any such threat would have alarmed the City and probably clipped a
couple of vital points off the Tories' percentage. Since then, the mood has
changed. A surprising number of people who would previously have regarded
withdrawal as unthinkable are now willing to consider it.

Mr Cameron is absolutely sincere in his pledge to renegotiate. If there is a
Tory majority at the next election, that process would begin immediately. The
Prime Minister has been telling European governments to disabuse themselves of
any idea that this would be another version of Harold Wilson's phoney
renegotiation in 1975, when he begged his partners to give him the excuse to
recommend a "yes" vote. Mr Cameron would like to remain in a Europe based on
free trade and political cooperation. But he would need a substantial
repatriation of powers before he could make that case to the British people.

Equally, it would be premature to hold a referendum in this Parliament. A
commitment to renegotiation followed by referendum should be enough.
Pro-Europeans such as Stephen Dorrell and Laura Sandys now assume that there
will be a referendum in the next Parliament and are preparing for it. Messrs
Cash, Jenkin and Redwood should do likewise.

There is a further argument against forcing the pace. Eighteen months ago, it
looked as if the eurozone was doomed unless its members were prepared to
buttress monetary union with fiscal union, leading inexorably to political
union, which could not happen. But those of us who predicted an early demise
underestimated the determination of the EU elite to press ahead with the
project, whatever the cost to their peoples' welfare. Mass unemployment;
blighting the lives of millions of young Europeans; threats to social stability
- what did that matter, as long as we were building Europe? It came to seem as
if the eurozone were trapped; that it could neither move forward, nor backward,
nor stay the same.

That is not a basis for stability. There must be a limit to the willingness of
the afflicted populations to accept hardships which many of them blame on the
Germans - with some justice. These days, the Germans are pacific. But in their
hearts, almost all senior German officials believe that there is a simple
solution to the problems of Europe: the rest of us should behave like them. The
Germans may have learnt to live in peace with their neighbours: not in harmony.
Bank-krieg has replaced blitzkrieg.

Spain is not in a recession. It is in a depression. Italy is suffering many of
the same symptoms, and its government is permanently overshadowed by Signor
Bungasconi. As for France: Mr Hollande promised to be "President Normal". He has
kept half his word: the "mal" bit. The French official class is still wedded to
the dream of Europe as a French jockey on a German horse. But France has lost
its currency. There is a successful common European language policy: English. If
the euro works, there will have to be political union, with France as Western
Australia or Texas in a European federation. No wonder the grands fromages who
run the French state are increasingly neuralgic - and increasingly resentful of
the Rosbifs.

It would be hard to renegotiate with the French; they would not be in a giving
mood. But any review of the eurozone's difficulties leads to an inescapable
conclusion. The EU which Mr Cameron could face after 2015 will not be the same
as it is now. There is going to be a crisis. That is an overwhelming argument
for short-term caution, while we prepare to exploit it to our advantage.

Matthew d'Ancona is away

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 5, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour progress is so slow there's no sign of panic among ministers

BYLINE: IAIN MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 879 words


Has Ukip transformed the electoral landscape? For Britain's established parties,
the strong showing by Ukip in the local elections was chastening. All three -
Conservatives, Labour and Liberal Democrats - polled the equivalent of less than
30 per cent on Thursday in terms of the national vote, as Nigel Farage's Ukip
took almost one in four votes where they stood.

This suggests that the fragmentation of British politics, which began with the
rise of the SDP in the 1980s, is continuing apace. The success of smaller
parties makes it more difficult for either of the two main parties to get an
overall majority in a general election.

The results should be kept in perspective though: these were local elections in
which turnouts were estimated at only 31 per cent, and although Ukip gained 139
councillors, there were some councils on which they made no progress.

How dangerous is it for the Tories? The worry for David Cameron is that in the
general election Nigel Farage does not need to hit anything like the numbers he
is scoring in opinion polls.

A vote of 5 to 7 per cent would inflict serious damage on the Conservatives. At
the 2010 general election, before its latest surge, Ukip secured 919,000, and
3.1 per cent of the vote. If Mr Farage can increase that by half again or even
double it, many Tory MPs with smaller majorities would be toast. He need not win
a single seat, but if he takes votes from the Tories, it will let other parties
through.

The Prime Minister also knows that in next year's European elections, Mr Farage
hopes to overtake the Conservatives, which would be a psychological blow.

How will Mr Cameron respond? There is no sense of panic. Indeed, Tory ministers
and MPs are taking comfort this weekend that the local elections could have been
much worse. That might sound odd - it was the party's worst performance since
John Major's days - but they had feared a better performance by Labour.

It was notable how few Tory MPs accepted the invitation to criticise the
leadership on television and radio after the polls closed; the proximity of a
general election means the party at Westminster is more united than it was a few
months ago.

That does not mean no pressure will be applied to Mr Cameron. Eurosceptic MPs
are pushing for him to bring forward a Bill for a so-called "mandate referendum
", the idea being that it would give the Government the power to begin
renegotiations with the EU to repatriate powers.

If it passed the Commons, British voters would then get a say ahead of
renegotiations that might sate their Eurosceptic appetite.

It remains to be seen whether this would dent Ukip support. Mr Cameron seems
inclined to take his time. The leadership view is that the recent shift in Tory
strategy, emphasising welfare reform, Labour weakness on the economy, and
downplaying controversial topics such as gay marriage, will eventually produce
dividends.

A Tory minister says: "There has already been a course correction."

What will Ukip do next? For all the relaxed demeanour of its beer-swilling
leader, Ukip had several close shaves last week when the inadequacy of its
candidate-vetting resulted in negative headlines. This time voters were prepared
to overlook some very unsuitable candidates and a manifesto drawn up on the back
of Mr Farage's fag packet.

Now the party leadership knows it has to up its game and become more
professional. Gratifyingly for Mr Farage, Ukip can expect a wave of large
donations, some from disaffected Tory donors, which it will be able to put to
work in its push to win those looming European elections.

Should Labour have done better? The local elections were taking place outside
the cities, in the shires where the Conservatives often start with a natural
advantage. But because Labour was beginning from a low base, it should have been
able to bounce back strongly against an unpopular government in mid-term. In the
event, rather than storming back, Labour gained 291 seats last week, which was
below expectations.

Although the party took back Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire, crucially it failed
to win Lancashire, Staffordshire or Cumbria, councils that Ed Miliband had
targeted.

A party heading for a big win in a general election should be capable of
producing spectacular gains that stun opponents. Tony Blair took the view when
he was leader of the opposition between 1994 and 1997 that there were no "nogo"
areas for New Labour. In contrast, last week Ed Miliband did OK, but no better
than that.

Can Nick Clegg take any comfort? Not much. True, the party's projected national
vote share based on these results was 14 per cent, which is down on the last
election although not at rock-bottom. And the pressure on the other two parties
leaves open the possibility that neither will be able to secure an overall
majority at the general election, meaning they may need a coalition partner in
the Lib Dems.

However, Mr Clegg's party lost 124 councillors, and in the South Shields
by-election, also on Thursday, it was humiliated, coming seventh, with only 352
votes. Mr Clegg said afterwards that the Lib Dems are "on a journey" as a party
of government.

Unless he can alter the destination, it looks as though this "journey" will end
with his party losing many of its 57 seats at the next general election.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 5, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

20 rebel MPs demand Europe Bill;
Conservative MPs fear Ukip could end their political careers

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1076 words


TWENTY CONSERVATIVE MPs today step up pressure on David Cameron to hold a
European Union referendum before the next general election.

The backbenchers, among them some of the party's most senior figures, believe
that the Prime Minister's plan not to hold a public vote until 2017 is failing
to arrest the rise of the UK Independence Party.

The MPs want to see a "mandate referendum" as early as next May in which the
public will be asked whether they want the Government to negotiate a "new
relationship with the EU based on trade and political co-operation".

Senior Tories including John Redwood, Bernard Jenkin and David Davis are leading
the campaign, which is gathering momentum after local elections last week in
which the party lost 335 seats, many to Ukip.

The Sunday Telegraph has spoken to MPs from across the party who today disclose
that they back the plan. They include John Whittingdale, the chairman of the
Commons culture select committee; Dr Julian Lewis, a former senior Central
Office official; and prominent members of the 2010 intake including Dominic
Raab, Henry Smith, Richard Drax and Priti Patel.

Mr Cameron has so far pledged only to renegotiate Britain's relationship with
Europe and then hold an "in-out" referendum on the new deal by 2017 -- meaning
today's expression of support for a new plan puts him under pressure to
fast-track a referendum, risking a Coalition split with the Liberal Democrats.

Today William Hague, one of Mr Cameron's most senior ministers, acknowledges the
impact on the Conservatives of last Thursday's dramatic shift to Ukip. Writing
in The Sunday Telegraph today he says that last week's local election results
had "sent a clear message to the Government".

Mr Hague writes: "Our first response is to underline to all those feeling
aggrieved that we don't simply 'understand' how they feel - on immigration, on
welfare, on bringing down the cost of living - we feel it too."

However, he does not offer support for a rapid move towards a referendum, which
those campaigning for it say is vital to reviving Conservative fortunes. Many
Conservative MPs are worried Ukip could end their political careers at the next
election.

Nigel Farage's party won about 23 per cent of the vote and 147 seats in last
week's election, up from eight at the equivalent poll four years ago.

A Downing Street insider said a mandate referendum before 2015 would almost
certainly be vetoed by Mr Cameron's Liberal Democrat Coalition partners.
However, those calling for a mandate referendum argue that it would be possible
for a Conservative backbencher to table the legislation necessary as a private
member's Bill.

Labour and the Lib Dems may vote against the legislation, but Tory MPs argue
doing so would make them look "anti-democratic".

Mr Redwood said that "leaving a referendum until 2017 is not going to work".

He said: "A mandate referendum has got to be held otherwise the public will
remain extremely fed up that we can't extradite people when we want to, we can't
control migration flows from Europe, we can't decide our benefits system, that
we have to have very dear energy because of the EU and we can't turn back the
avalanche of regulations."

The MPs argue a mandate referendum would give Mr Cameron a strong hand when
renegotiating Britain's relationship with Europe.

Mr Jenkin said: "I am in favour of a referendum Bill in this parliament, but it
would be much more powerful to hold a referendum on this side of a general
election. This would give the Prime Minister more of a negotiating mandate when
he goes to renegotiate Britain's relationship." Mr Drax, the MP for South
Dorset, said: "We need something to indicate to a disbelieving public that we
mean business on this crucial issue of the EU. We've got to tell people they are
going to get a choice and that they are going to get a choice with us. Some
members of our party need to be reminded what Conservatives stand for.

"People are getting tired of words. What they want is action. The crucial thing
is we've got to do something now to reassure voters that we mean business on a
referendum.

That is why I think the campaign for a mandate referendum is a good one."

David Ruffley, another Eurosceptic MP, added: "Many of us on the Right of the
party have been arguing for the mandate referendum since last summer. Those of
us who thought the Ukip insurgency would be as strong as it was in these
elections always thought David Cameron would have to take a tougher line on
Europe. A mandate referendum is the way to do it."

Other Conservatives who said they would back a mandate referendum before the
next election include Bill Cash, Douglas Carswell, Mark Field, Julian Lewis,
Andrew Rosindell, Heather Wheeler, Bob Stewart, Nick DeBois, and Adam Holloway.

Mr Hague today expresses confidence in Mr Cameron and his determination to stick
to existing policies.

"There is always a temptation for politicians to offer quick fixes; to say we
can cut taxes, increase spending, bring down the deficit and solve our nation's
problems with a wave of a magic wand," he writes. "The truth is there are no
easy ways out for our country. It has fallen to us, in this generation and this
Government, to make the changes Britain desperately needs."

Meanwhile, a study has found that membership of the EU now costs Britain at
least £32 billion a year, a figure certain to be seized on by backbench
Conservatives. The report, by the think tank Civitas, also says that UK
businesses could benefit "enormously" from being outside the EU as it would
leave the Government free to develop better free-trade agreements with other
countries.

As well as the £5.6billion cost of the Common Agricultural Policy and a
£6.8billion contribution to the EU's budget, the annual bill for Brussels-based
legislation on British companies is judged to be £19billion.

Meanwhile, figures suggest the cost of the European Council's new headquarters
is to rise from (EURO)240 million (£202million) to (EURO)327million (£275.4
million).

Pieter Cleppe, a spokesman for Open Europe, a Eurosceptic think tank, said:
"This only serves to feed the view that the EU is tone deaf to the political
mood."

FOUR-PAGE LOCAL ELECTIONS SPECIAL How the Tories can win back the country Page
12-13 Why a true blue county turned purple Pages 14-15

PLUS Andrew Gilligan: Page 16 Janet Daley: Page 26 Bruce Anderson: Page 26
Editorial Comment: Page 27

ONLINE Bernard Jenkin: Why we need an urgent vote on Europe
telegraph.co.uk/comment

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 5, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

20rebel MPs demand Europe Bll;
Conservative MPs fear Ukip could end their political careers

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1088 words


TWENTY CONSERVATIVE MPs today step up pressure on David Cameron to hold a
European Union referendum before the next general election.

The backbenchers, among them some of the party's most senior figures, believe
that the Prime Minister's plan not to hold a public vote until 2017 is failing
to arrest the rise of the UK Independence Party.

The MPs want to see a "mandate referendum" as early as next May in which the
public will be asked whether they want the Government to negotiate a "new
relationship with the EU based on trade and political co-operation".

Senior Tories including John Redwood, Bernard Jenkin and David Davis are leading
the campaign, which is gathering momentum after local elections last week in
which the party lost 335 seats, many to Ukip.

The Sunday Telegraph has spoken to MPs from across the party who today disclose
that they back the plan. They include John Whittingdale, the chairman of the
Commons culture select committee; Dr Julian Lewis, a former senior Central
Office official; and prominent members of the 2010 intake including Dominic
Raab, Henry Smith, Richard Drax and Priti Patel.

Mr Cameron has so far pledged only to renegotiate Britain's relationship with
Europe and then hold an "in-out" referendum on the new deal by 2017 -- meaning
today's expression of support for a new plan puts him under pressure to
fast-track a referendum, risking a Coalition split with the Liberal Democrats.

Today William Hague, one of Mr Cameron's most senior ministers, acknowledges the
impact on the Conservatives of last Thursday's dramatic shift to Ukip. Writing
in The Sunday Telegraph, he says that last week's local election results had
"sent a clear message to the Government".

Mr Hague writes: "Our first response is to underline to all those feeling
aggrieved that we don't simply 'understand' how Continued on Page 2

Continued from Page 1 they feel - on immigration, on welfare, on bringing down
the cost of living - we feel it too."

However, he does not offer support for a rapid move towards a referendum, which
those campaigning for it say is vital to reviving Conservative fortunes. Many
Conservative MPs are worried Ukip could end their political careers at the next
election.

Nigel Farage's party won about 23 per cent of the vote and 147 seats in last
week's election, up from eight at the equivalent poll four years ago.

A Downing Street insider said a mandate referendum before 2015 would almost
certainly be vetoed by Mr Cameron's Liberal Democrat Coalition partners.
However, those calling for a mandate referendum argue that it would be possible
for a Conservative backbencher to table the legislation necessary as a private
member's Bill.

Labour and the Lib Dems may vote against the legislation, but Tory MPs argue
doing so would make them look "anti-democratic".

Mr Redwood said that "leaving a referendum until 2017 is not going to work".

He said: "A mandate referendum has got to be held otherwise the public will
remain extremely fed up that we can't extradite people when we want to, we can't
control migration flows from Europe, we can't decide our benefits system, that
we have to have very dear energy because of the EU and we can't turn back the
avalanche of regulations."

The MPs argue a mandate referendum would give Mr Cameron a strong hand when
renegotiating Britain's relationship with Europe.

Mr Jenkin said: "I am in favour of a referendum Bill in this parliament, but it
would be much more powerful to hold a referendum on this side of a general
election. This would give the Prime Minister more of a negotiating mandate when
he goes to renegotiate Britain's relationship." Mr Drax, the MP for South
Dorset, said: "We need something to indicate to a disbelieving public that we
mean business on this crucial issue of the EU. We've got to tell people they are
going to get a choice and that they are going to get a choice with us. Some
members of our party need to be reminded what Conservatives stand for.

"People are getting tired of words. What they want is action. The crucial thing
is we've got to do something now to reassure voters that we mean business on a
referendum.

That is why I think the campaign for a mandate referendum is a good one."

David Ruffley, another Eurosceptic MP, added: "Many of us on the Right of the
party have been arguing for the mandate referendum since last summer. Those of
us who thought the Ukip insurgency would be as strong as it was in these
elections always thought David Cameron would have to take a tougher line on
Europe. A mandate referendum is the way to do it."

Other Conservatives who said they would back a mandate referendum before the
next election include Bill Cash, Douglas Carswell, Mark Field, Julian Lewis,
Andrew Rosindell, Heather Wheeler, Bob Stewart, Nick DeBois, and Adam Holloway.

Mr Hague today expresses confidence in Mr Cameron and his determination to stick
to existing policies.

"There is always a temptation for politicians to offer quick fixes; to say we
can cut taxes, increase spending, bring down the deficit and solve our nation's
problems with a wave of a magic wand," he writes. "The truth is there are no
easy ways out for our country. It has fallen to us, in this generation and this
Government, to make the changes Britain desperately needs."

Meanwhile, a study has found that membership of the EU now costs Britain at
least £32 billion a year, a figure certain to be seized on by backbench
Conservatives. The report, by the think tank Civitas, also says that UK
businesses could benefit "enormously" from being outside the EU as it would
leave the Government free to develop better free-trade agreements with other
countries. As well as the £5.6billion cost of the Common Agricultural Policy and
a £6.8billion contribution to the EU's budget, the annual bill for
Brussels-based legislation on British companies is judged to be £19billion.

Meanwhile, figures suggest the cost of the European Council's new headquarters
is to rise from (EURO)240 million (£202million) to (EURO)327million (£275.4
million).

Pieter Cleppe, a spokesman for Open Europe, a Eurosceptic think tank, said:
"This only serves to feed the view that the EU is tone deaf to the political
mood."

FOUR-PAGE LOCAL ELECTIONS SPECIAL How the Tories can win back the country Page
12-13 Why a true blue county turned purple Pages 14-15 PLUS Andrew Gilligan:
Page 16 Janet Daley: Page 26 Bruce Anderson: Page 26 Editorial Comment: Page 27
ONLINE Bernard Jenkin: Why we need an urgent vote on Europe
telegraph.co.uk/comment

Continued from Page 1 they [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 14, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron and Merkel in EU pledge

BYLINE: RACHEL COOPER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words


DAVID CAMERON and his German counterpart, Angela Merkel, have pledged to make
the EU more competitive and pursue "concrete action" on tax evasion.

After talks at Mrs Merkel's guest residence at Schloss Meseberg, Downing Street
said yesterday that the two leaders had agreed on the "urgent need" to make
Europe more competitive and flexible. The pair also want the EU to be prepared
to make an "ambitious offer" in trade talks with the US.

"They agreed on the urgent need to make Europe more competitive and flexible and
talked about ways to achieve this. And they discussed how we can work together
in the run up to the May and June European Councils to make further progress,"
said a spokesperson for Number 10.

"They both want to see faster progress on trade deals between the EU and the
rest of the world. And they agreed that the EU should be prepared to put an
ambitious offer on the table for EU-US negotiations which we want to get
underway this summer."

The US and the EU aim to start negotiating a vast free trade pact by June, but
the plan faces many hurdles. Such a pact would be the most ambitious since the
founding of the World Trade Organisation in 1995, embracing half of world output
and a third of trade.

The two leaders spoke too about the forthcoming G8 summit in Northern Ireland,
hosted by Mr Cameron.

"They also discussed the upcoming G8 summit in Lough Erne and particularly how
the G8 countries should show global leadership by taking concrete action on tax
evasion and aggressive tax avoidance and making clear that everyone must pay
their fair share of taxes," Downing Street said yesterday.

The prime minister has already said that he will use Britain's chairmanship of
the G8 this year to debate tax evasion and avoidance.

Mr Cameron used his stay in Germany to set out his plans to renegotiate
Britain's relationship with Europe.

Mrs Merkel is anxious that Britain should remain in the EU and has made no
secret of her concerns about Mr Cameron's plan to stage a referendum on
membership.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 14, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron and Merkel seek 'urgent' EU reform

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS; PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 347 words


DAVID CAMERON and Angela Merkel called yesterday for "urgent" action to make the
European Union more competitive and flexible. The Prime Minister and the German
chancellor discussed possible reforms to the single market in a summit at
Schloss Meseberg, Mrs Merkel's 18thcentury rural retreat.

The talks came days after the death of Baroness Thatcher, who was a keen
advocate of European reform.

Earlier this year Mr Cameron set out plans to renegotiate Britain's relationship
with the EU and then hold a referendum on membership of the single market by
2017.

Some critics have argued that he will not be able to repatriate powers from
Brussels or make other significant changes as there is little appetite for
reform elsewhere.

But a Downing Street spokesman said after the talks: "The PM set out his
approach to European reform, following on from his speech in January. They
agreed on the urgent need to make Europe more competitive and flexible and
talked about ways to achieve this."

They discussed how they could work together in the run-up to meetings of
European leaders in May and June, he said, adding: "They both want to see faster
progress on trade deals between the EU and the rest of the world."

The leaders also called for tougher action on companies and individuals who do
not pay their "fair share" of tax.

Downing Street said they agreed that the G8 group of wealthy nations should
"show global leadership by taking concrete action on tax evasion and aggressive
tax avoidance". They will push for better exchange of information between
national tax authorities. Mrs Merkel presented David Cameron's daughter
Florence, two, with a teddy bear to mark the family's overnight stay at the
castle outside Berlin, a rare invitation.

Nancy, nine, was given a painting set and Elwen, seven, Lego. Sources said the
gifts went down "extremely well".

The Camerons gave Mrs Merkel and her husband, Joachim Sauer - who have no
children - a Denby tea set.

Mrs Merkel sees the Prime Minister as an important centre-Right ally and is
known to be worried at the prospect of Britain leaving the EU.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 14, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron and Merkel seek 'urgent' EU reform

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS; PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 347 words


DAVID CAMERON and Angela Merkel called yesterday for "urgent" action to make the
European Union more competitive and flexible. The Prime Minister and the German
chancellor discussed possible reforms to the single market in a summit at
Schloss Meseberg, Mrs Merkel's 18thcentury rural retreat.

The talks came days after the death of Baroness Thatcher, who was a keen
advocate of European reform.

Earlier this year Mr Cameron set out plans to renegotiate Britain's relationship
with the EU and then hold a referendum on membership of the single market by
2017.

Some critics have argued that he will not be able to repatriate powers from
Brussels or make other significant changes as there is little appetite for
reform elsewhere.

But a Downing Street spokesman said after the talks: "The PM set out his
approach to European reform, following on from his speech in January. They
agreed on the urgent need to make Europe more competitive and flexible and
talked about ways to achieve this."

They discussed how they could work together in the run-up to meetings of
European leaders in May and June, he said, adding: "They both want to see faster
progress on trade deals between the EU and the rest of the world."

The leaders also called for tougher action on companies and individuals who do
not pay their "fair share" of tax.

Downing Street said they agreed that the G8 group of wealthy nations should
"show global leadership by taking concrete action on tax evasion and aggressive
tax avoidance". They will push for better exchange of information between
national tax authorities.

Mrs Merkel presented David Cameron's daughter Florence, two, with a teddy bear
to mark the family's overnight stay at the castle outside Berlin, a rare
invitation.

Nancy, nine, was given a painting set and Elwen, seven, Lego. Sources said the
gifts went down "extremely well".

The Camerons gave Mrs Merkel and her husband, Joachim Sauer - who have no
children - a Denby tea set.

Mrs Merkel sees the Prime Minister as an important centre-Right ally and is
known to be worried at the prospect of Britain leaving the EU.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 14, 2013
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Cameron and Merkel seek 'urgent' EU reform

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS; PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 347 words


DAVID CAMERON and Angela Merkel called yesterday for "urgent" action to make the
European Union more competitive and flexible. The Prime Minister and the German
chancellor discussed possible reforms to the single market in a summit at
Schloss Meseberg, Mrs Merkel's 18thcentury rural retreat.

The talks came days after the death of Baroness Thatcher, who was a keen
advocate of European reform.

Earlier this year Mr Cameron set out plans to renegotiate Britain's relationship
with the EU and then hold a referendum on membership of the single market by
2017.

Some critics have argued that he will not be able to repatriate powers from
Brussels or make other significant changes as there is little appetite for
reform elsewhere. But a Downing Street spokesman said after the talks: "The PM
set out his approach to European reform, following on from his speech in
January. They agreed on the urgent need to make Europe more competitive and
flexible and talked about ways to achieve this."

They discussed how they could work together in the run-up to meetings of
European leaders in May and June, he said, adding: "They both want to see faster
progress on trade deals between the EU and the rest of the world."

The leaders also called for tougher action on companies and individuals who do
not pay their "fair share" of tax.

Downing Street said they agreed that the G8 group of wealthy nations should
"show global leadership by taking concrete action on tax evasion and aggressive
tax avoidance". They will push for better exchange of information between
national tax authorities.

Mrs Merkel presented David Cameron's daughter Florence, two, with a teddy bear
to mark the family's overnight stay at the castle outside Berlin, a rare
invitation.

Nancy, nine, was given a painting set and Elwen, seven, Lego. Sources said the
gifts went down "extremely well".

The Camerons gave Mrs Merkel and her husband, Joachim Sauer - who have no
children - a Denby tea set.

Mrs Merkel sees the Prime Minister as an important centre-Right ally and is
known to be worried at the prospect of Britain leaving the EU.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Human rights, the EU, welfare: is this what the Tories plan for 2015?;
INTERVIEW Chris Grayling may be an 'attack dog' in the mould of Tebbit, Patrick
Hennessy discovers

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1216 words


THE NINTH-floor office at the Ministry of Justice, with its portrait of a
bewigged 18th-century Lord Chancellor, bookcases full of legal tomes and views
of Buckingham Palace is not the most likely lift-off point for a general
election campaign. But try telling Chris Grayling that.

Appointed Justice Secretary in last September's reshuffle, Mr Grayling could not
have provided a greater contrast with his predecessor, the veteran, Left-leaning
Kenneth Clarke, a man unkindly nicknamed "the sixth Liberal Democrat in the
Cabinet" by Tory backbenchers.

Mr Grayling rattles off a list of his achievements in the past six months - all
of which manage to appeal to Rightwing Tories while retaining a large measure of
popular support: new legal protections for householders who attack burglars,
"two strikes and you're out" life sentences for serious sexual and violent
offenders, mandatory punishments in community sentences, and a tougher prison
regime.

While there is certainly a more considered side to him (he says his greatest
challenge is to help prisoners off the easy path to reoffending) you get the
clear impression that he feels his wide-ranging Whitehall brief gives him the
perfect opportunity, despite the frustrations of coalition, to take the fight to
Labour.

He could be as effective a Cabinet 'attack dog' for the Tories as Norman Tebbit
was in the 1980s.

Human rights, the European Union, welfare reform - Mr Grayling uses this
interview effectively to draft large parts of a "real Conservative" manifesto
for 2015. He is quick to make the point that Ed Miliband is taking Labour to the
Left.

"Ed Miliband's Labour Party is a throwback to the Labour Party as it was before
Tony Blair," he claims. "We have gone back to a trade union-dominated,
Left-leaning, class hatred-based Labour Party of the kind that did so much
damage to this country in the past."

This is one of the "big messages" that the Tories need to get across, he says.
But he admits it is a difficult task while governing in a coalition.

Take human rights, one of the touchstone issues for Tories who resent the way
direction from Europe influences British justice. Any serious attempt to repeal
the Human Rights Act brought in under Labour would be instantly blocked by the
Lib Dems, with the serious risk of the Coalition collapsing if the Tories
persisted with it. So plans have to be drawn up by the Conservatives as a party
rather than as a government, and unveiled in their general election manifesto.

Why not seriously reform the process of deporting foreign criminals before the
election?

His answer is framed in terms of realpolitik: "I would love to do it, if I had
the choice I would be working like billy-o now to bring forward reforms to the
Human Rights framework as quickly as possible.

"In fact, I'd have been doing it from the moment I took over the job last year.

"I don't understand why the other parties are not in favour of wholesale change,
but the fact is that's the way of the world. They have more votes than us in the
House of Commons. There's no point pretending." Instead the Tories are better
off "making sure we can deliver real change at the first possible opportunity".
He has, he reveals, presumably with his party hat on, been taking "expert legal
advice" to plot the way forward.

Like some other politicians, including Margaret Thatcher, Mr Grayling gives the
impression of being frustrated by the constraints of government and that his
true instincts are much closer to those of the public. I ask him if he thought
the minimum 15-year sentence handed down to Mick Philpott, who killed six of his
children by burning down his house, was too lenient.

This is a tricky area for the Justice Secretary, whose post incorporates that of
Lord Chancellor, head of the judiciary. Mr Grayling hints he is with those who
think the sentence was not long enough without actually saying so. "I think all
of us were horrified by the case. All of us wanted to see tough sentences. As to
whether they were exactly right or wrong, I think it's always a mistake for the
Lord Chancellor to start to judge the decisions of individual judges.

"That said, I'm happy he's going to be behind bars for a long time."

Like a number of other Cabinet ministers, Mr Grayling is currently engaged in a
battle with the Treasury over George Osborne's call for departments to offer up
another 10 per cent of cutbacks for the year 2015/16.

With Theresa May, the Home Secretary, and Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary,
Mr Grayling is often cited as a member of the militant "National Union of
Ministers" (NUM) who are arguing that the welfare budget should be raided for
further savings before their own departments.

He says the "NUM stuff" has been "slightly exaggerated in some quarters" but
freely admits in a clear message to the Chancellor: "There are a number of us
who would like us at the very least to take a further look at the welfare budget
to see if there are additional ways in which money can be saved."

One way in which Mr Grayling is happy to shrink his department's budget is legal
aid. Even after a first round of cutbacks to civil legal aid, the cost remains
at £1.7billion a year. The Justice Secretary is about to shake up criminal legal
aid, a system which can see highly paid QCs rake in hundreds of thousands of
pounds a year from the taxpayer defending suspected criminals.

Reforms, which will include prisoners losing the right to claim legal aid for
cases other than those concerning the length of their sentences, should save
another £300 million a year.

The changes also include a new 12-month residency test before civil legal aid
can be claimed, something many voters will feel is long overdue. Currently,
because of the absence of checks, illegal immigrants, failed asylum seekers and
even people on tourist or student visas are eligible for the aid.

Even if he gets a firm grip on the British judicial system there is always a
threat from Europe. Mr Grayling sees evidence that the European Commission is
trying to take "significant steps" towards creating a European Justice system.
In recent weeks Brussels has published a "justice scorecard" of the performance
of member states, which he believes is part of an attempt to "harmonise" justice
across Europe.

Luckily Britain has an optout from EU justice issues, but the country must still
be "very vigilant", Mr Grayling suggests. He says that the overall answer to the
European problem lies in David Cameron's promise of a renegotiation of Britain's
membership of the EU followed by an "in/out" referendum in 2017. More than 100
Tory backbenchers have called for legislation paving the way for this process
before the next election to show voters that the party is serious.

Once again, however, any such move would be vetoed by the Lib Dems.

"Renegotiating our relationship with the European Union and putting it to a
referendum, and sorting out the human rights issue are two things we don't have
- and we won't have - a majority for in this parliament before the election,
much as I wish we did.

"I would love to start both of these things tomorrow but you have to deal with
the world as it is, rather than how you would like it to be."

'Ed Miliband's Labour Party is a throwback to before Blair'

'We don't have a majority for changes, much as I wish we did'

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Grayling can list a number of achievements since becoming Justice
Secretary, but he is frustrated by the lack of appetite among the other main
parties for the kind of wholesale changes to human rights legislation that he
wants to see
GEOFF PUGH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hospitals pay trainee staff £2,000 a day;
EU directive blamed for 'out of control' agency payments

BYLINE: LAURA DONNELLY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 987 words


TRAINEE DOCTORS are being paid more than £2,000 a day for locum shifts in NHS
hospitals as the bill for agency staff spirals out of control, a Sunday
Telegraph investigation has found.

Ministers last night warned NHS managers to "get a grip" on the problem, saying
that some hospitals were relying on unacceptably high levels of temporary staff.

In some cases doctors were being paid rates of £15,000 a week - the equivalent
to an annual salary of more than £700,000.

Senior managers at hospitals spending more than £2,000 a day on medical staff
admitted that costs were "spiralling out of control" and payments had become
"ridiculous".

Our investigation discloses how hundreds of millions of pounds have been spent
paying doctors via agencies, which take a cut of the payments, and found that:

Hospitals spent more than £2billion on locum doctors in three years - a sum that
could have paid the wages of 32,000 junior doctors or 10,000 consultants.

North Cumbria University Hospitals Trust spent £15,000 hiring a consultant
cardiologist for a week last July.

North Lincolnshire and Goole Hospitals Foundation Trust paid £2,794 for 24 hours
of cover in its Accident & Emergency (A&E) department in May 2011.

A trainee doctor at Princess Alexandra Hospital in Essex was paid £2,107 for a
12½-hour shift in January 2012.

East Kent Hospitals University Foundation Trust paid £2,474 for a nonconsultant
doctor to work 9½ hours in A&E last April.

Despite repeated Government pledges to reduce wasteful spending in the NHS, the
figures show that national spending on locum doctors has risen by 8 per cent
since 2011.

Dr Dan Poulter, the health minister, said the lucrative market had been fed by
the previous government's decision to sign up to the European Working Time
Directive, which set a maximum 48-hour-week for doctors in August 2009.

The rules mean that many hospitals have had to take on more doctors or use staff
from agencies.

Last night Dr Poulter said: "It was a disastrous decision which had terrible
consequences for patients, in losing continuity of care with doctors, and
meaning that there is this overreliance on locum doctors, and the problems with
the directive are one of the key reasons why the Prime Minister has promised a
referendum on Europe."

However, he said that the best NHS trusts did not rely heavily on locums, and
that the excess spending was "frankly, a sign of poor management and a need to
get a grip."

He said the issue would be among many inefficiencies tackled in a Government
review of NHS procurement which is due to report next month.

Carolyn Apps, the resourcing manager of East Kent Hospitals University
Foundation Trust told a meeting of hospital managers last summer that the trust
had taken steps to tackle its spending.

In a report of the discussions, she said: "We were just spiralling out of
control and the expenditure was just ridiculous, so about 18 months ago we put
in place our own framework and we don't go off that framework."

In fact the disclosures, revealed under the Freedom of Information Act, show
that last April, the trust paid more than £2,400 for a "staff grade" doctor - a
non-consultant - to work a 9½-hour shift in A&E, a rate of more than £200 an
hour.

At the same meeting, Neil Baigent, then a civil servant with the Government
Procurement Service admitted that the market was so poorly regulated that "we
could all leave this room now and go and set up a locum doctor agency, trading
from our garden shed and supplying workers into the NHS".

Katherine Murphy, chief executive of the Patients Association, said: "This is a
shockingly wasteful way to run a service.

"So many hospitals are paying vast sums because there is no proper planning and
management, so that instead locums are brought in on a last-minute, ad hoc
basis, at huge expense and to the detriment of patient care."

The rates being paid for medical cover illustrate the scale of excess in the
current system.

In total, 99 hospital trusts - out of 164 - responded to our freedom of
information requests about the amounts they spent on temporary doctors.

These were used to calculate an NHS-wide figure, which shows £2.06 billion spent
since 2010/11.

A total of 29 trusts responded to requests for information about the highest
rates paid for shifts. Of those, 27 admitted spending more than £1,000 a day to
hire individual doctors since April 2010. Most of the sums paid included fees
paid to agencies. However, agencies which hire locum doctors have recently
advertised NHS work which pays more than £100 an hour, plus accommodation.

Hospital trusts paying the highest rates said that the locums were often working
long shifts - equivalent to more than a day's work - in specialities where there
was a shortage of doctors.

They said agencies were used to cover sickness and peaks in demand, often at
short notice.

North Cumbria University Hospitals Trust said that it had launched a recruitment
campaign for consultants and aimed to scale back on the use of locums, so that
it was using none within three years.

Trust Paid Role Shift length Princess Alexandra £2,195 Ear, nose 24½ hr
Hospital, Essex & throat registrar North Cumbria University £15,000 Consultant 1
week Hospitals cardiologist including on call Salisbury Foundation, Wilts £2,524
Consultant 24 hr radiologist Mid Yorkshire Hospitals £2,146 Consultant 24 hr
obstetrics & including gynaecology on call East Kent Hospitals £2,474 Staff
grade 9½ hr A&E University Foundation £2,048 Consultant 24 hr Ealing Hospital,
London trauma and orthopaedics Northern Lincolnshire and £2,594 Haematology 24
hr Goole Hospitals Foundation consultant Mid Staffordshire £2,025 Consultant 24
hr Foundation surgeon Barking, Havering and £2,297 A&E 24 hr Redbridge
University consultant Hospitals, London Royal Orthopaedic Hospital £1,911
Specialist 24 hr Foundation, London registrar Payments include fees to agencies

We could set up a locum agency trading from a garden shed'

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage lives the dream as Ukip enjoys 'Heineken effect'

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 1179 words


FOR A while, things were looking slightly rocky for Nigel Farage.

In the entrance to Worcester's Guildhall, the ranks of silver-haired supporters
for the UK Independence Party were growing restive.

About 350 people had come to see the Eurosceptic tubthumper speak, but two
matronly attendants insisted they could only admit 180.

"It's a bloody shambles," roared one tweedy man.

Mr Farage sprang into action. He suddenly appeared on a balcony overlooking the
overspill crowd and began an impromptu speech.

"Thank you all so much for coming tonight," Mr Farage began, adding with flare:
"I am so sorry EU health and safety rules make it impossible to let more of you
inside." The mood changed in an instant; welcome to Day Three of Ukip's two-week
tour ahead of May's local elections.

There was applause when Ukip's frontman insisted only migrants who had worked,
paid taxes and obeyed the law should receive benefits.

When he declared that David Cameron's pledge to hold a referendum on Europe in
2017 relied on the Tories winning the next election, the audience laughed
raucously.

When he said that he trusted the Prime Minister "about as far as he could throw
Ted Heath", the room erupted. And then he went into the main hall, and delivered
his planned speech to a rapturous audience.

Mr Farage, it seems, is living the dream. His party is riding high in the polls
and attracting thousands of members. In the past few months, it has come second
in three by-elections.

Tory MPs are becoming agitated about whether Ukip will put them out of a job at
the 2015 general election.

That is not to say that Ukip now has the feel of a slick political operation.
When the party's battle bus broke down last week, Mr Farage and his acolytes
relied on taxis to pick their way through the West Country. A slug of beer and a
bawdy joke or two are seldom absent from Ukip events. "Something is definitely
going on - it's been phenomenal," says Mr Farage outside Worcester's Guildhall.

"We started our tour off in Cornwall - we couldn't get them all in the hall.
Fifty of them gave up and went home." When The Sunday Telegraph met up with
Ukip's leader in the Gloucestershire town of Lydney earlier that day, about 300
supporters were cramped into a venue for 120. "It was like the black hole of
Calcutta in there," Mr Farage chuckles.

One man was so enthralled that he suggested "the Messiah" had come to Lydney.
"I'm not the Messiah," Ukip's leader trilled back. "I'm actually a very naughty
boy."

Isn't that Mr Farage's appeal? Isn't he just a hard-talking - and
harder-drinking - rabble rouser attracting protest votes? "The people I met at
Eastleigh weren't protest voters," he said. "They told me they agreed with our
policies. We feel that ordinary decent families of Britain have been let down by
both political parties.

"Our support is diverse, geographically and in class. You are as likely to meet
a Ukip supporter in a working man's club in Hull as a ladies' tea room in
Cheltenham."

A third of the party's voters in Eastleigh were former Con-servative supporters,
with a third disaffected Lib Dems or Labour backers. However, the rest were
people who have not voted in recent elections.

Some Ukippers describe this as "the Heineken effect" - saying the party is
"reaching voters other parties cannot reach", echoing the slogan of the Dutch
beer.

But where is Ukip's surge actually leading? Mr Farage expects success in the
local elections on May 2 and hopes for a "political earthquake" in European
elections next year.

He says that in order to focus on these two campaigns, he will not stand in a
by-election personally before the 2015 general election. Is this wise? The party
still does not have a single seat in Westminster. "A first MP would be an
important moment, of course - although frankly it hasn't done much for the Green
Party or Respect," he says.

Nevertheless, could a surge in Ukip's share of the vote in 2015 actually prove
counterproductive for Eurosceptics? Surely a Eurosceptic's best chance of
getting an EU referendum is to vote Conservative - the only major party that has
so far promised such a vote. And isn't every vote for Ukip making that
Conservative majority less likely?

Mr Farage says Ukip would be the only party that would deliver a referendum.
"Come the general election, Labour and the Lib Dems will be promising
referendums too. They've promised referendums before and let the British public
down. Why should it be different this time?"

Mr Farage has a particular antipathy towards Mr Cameron, who gave a "castiron
guarantee" of a referendum on Britain's EU membership while in opposition - only
to abandon the idea later. Animosity between them also stems from the Tory
leader's claim that Ukip is plagued with "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists".

In the speeches he gave on Wednesday, barbs aimed at the Prime Minister
personally elicited the most positive reaction from the crowds.

"Traditional Tory voters are used to having a leader who talks about attainment,
free enterprise and success," Mr Farage says. "Now they've got one who talks
about gay marriage and wind turbines." He certainly seems to relish the idea of
being able to take on Mr Cameron in pre-election TV debates, adding that it
would be "farcical" if he was not allowed to do so. "Well, Mr Cameron is a
skilled operator and he's a very polished performer," he says. "But I think the
advantage I have is that I actually believe in things. I'm not sure he believes
in all that much."

Ukip's leader may have ruled out an alliance with the Conservatives under Mr
Cameron, but appears entirely open to doing deals with other potential Tory
leaders.

"I like Michael Gove very much," he enthuses. "He is someone who is prepared to
listen to another point of view.

"Boris is almost unique as a Conservative politician. When he makes a public
statement a lot of Ukip supporters say 'Yes, I agree with that'. He is prepared
to stand up for the City because he understands it's not just about bankers -
there's a lot more at stake. Could we have a conversation with him? Of course."

Upbeat Mr Farage may be, but he is angry that Ukip is a victim of
discrimination, with some of its famous supporters "scared" of going public.

He says a former England cricket captain was interested in publicly backing
Ukip, but feared doing so would cost him his commentary contract.

A billionaire businessman was only happy to give donations of a few thousand
pounds. "I would have loved him to add a few noughts to the cheque, but he
feared some sort of reprisal," Mr Farage says.

Some candidates have also suffered what he calls "disgusting" treatment. A
senior Ukip figure told this newspaper that one supporter lost her local
government job when she announced she was planning to stand as a councillor. Mr
Farage said there had been similar cases in the past.

"An atmosphere has been created that if you discuss immigration you are racist.
If you discuss leaving the European Union you are apparently some sort of
narrowminded little Englander."

There seemed little evidence of such stigma in Worcester or Lydney last week.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clockwise from left: Ukip leader Nigel Farage speaking in Lydney,
Gloucestershire, last week; meeting candidates for May's council elections in
the town; enjoying a pint at a break during the event; visiting the
Worcestershire county cricket ground; and adorning posters on his tour through
the West Country
JULIAN SIMMONDS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 7, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Farage lives the dream

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 503 words


FOR A while, things were looking slightly rocky for Nigel Farage.

In the entrance to Worcester's Guildhall, the ranks of silver-haired supporters
for the UK Independence Party were growing restive.

About 350 people had come to see the Eurosceptic tubthumper speak, but two
matronly attendants insisted they could only admit 180.

"It's a bloody shambles," roared one tweedy man.

Mr Farage sprang into action. He suddenly appeared on a balcony overlooking the
overspill crowd and began an impromptu speech.

"Thank you all so much for coming tonight," Mr Farage began, adding with flare:
"I am so sorry EU health and safety rules make it impossible to let more of you
inside." The mood changed in an instant; welcome to Day Three of Ukip's two-week
tour ahead of May's local elections.

There was applause when Ukip's frontman insisted only migrants who had worked,
paid taxes and obeyed the law should receive benefits.

When he declared that David Cameron's pledge to hold a referendum on Europe in
2017 relied on the Tories winning the next election, the audience laughed
raucously.

When he said that he trusted the Prime Minister "about as far as he could throw
Ted Heath", the room erupted. And then he went into the main hall, and delivered
his planned speech to a rapturous audience.

Mr Farage, it seems, is living the dream. His party is riding high in the polls
and attracting thousands of members. In the past few months, it has come second
in three by-elections.

Tory MPs are becoming agitated about whether Ukip will put them out of a job at
the 2015 general election.

That is not to say that Ukip now has the feel of a slick political operation.
When the party's battle bus broke down last week, Mr Farage and his acolytes
relied on taxis to pick their way through the West Country. A slug of beer and a
bawdy joke or two are seldom absent from Ukip events. "Something is definitely
going on - it's been phenomenal," says Mr Farage outside Worcester's Guildhall.

"We started our tour off in Cornwall - we couldn't get them all in the hall.
Fifty of them gave up and went home." When The Sunday Telegraph met up with
Ukip's leader in the Gloucestershire town of Lydney earlier that day, about 300
supporters were cramped into a venue for 120. "It was like the black hole of
Calcutta in there," Mr Farage chuckles.

One man was so enthralled that he suggested "the Messiah" had come to Lydney.

"I'm not the Messiah," Ukip's leader trilled back. "I'm actually a very naughty
boy."

Isn't that Mr Farage's appeal? Isn't he just a hard-talking - and
harder-drinking - rabble rouser attracting protest votes? "The people I met at
Eastleigh weren't protest voters," he said. "They told me they agreed with our
policies. We feel that ordinary decent families of Britain have been let down by
both political parties.

"Our support is diverse, geographically and in class. You are as likely to meet
a Ukip supporter in a working man's club in Hull as a ladies' tea room in
Cheltenham."

A third of the party's voters in Eastleigh were former Con-

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 31, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Beer, Karaoke and a mission to dispel 'Tory toffs' image;
INTERVIEW Grant Shapps sets out to show his party's support for ordinary people,
writes Patrick Hennessy

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1372 words


THE MESSAGE is literally in black and white. The Conservative Party chairman is
conducting an interview with The Sunday Telegraph, pint of Guinness in hand, in
his local pub, just a week after the first cut in beer duty since 1959.

The Tories, it is being made plain, are not a bunch of outof-touch toffs. If
they are to win a majority at the next general election, they must show they are
fully in tune with ordinary people, who like to nip out to the pub at the end of
the working week.

Grant Shapps loves coming to The Brookmans, in his Hertfordshire constituency of
Welwyn Hatfield. He and his wife Belinda sometimes take their three children
there and he confesses to a fondness for the venue's karaoke sessions, where
regulars attest he can be seen belting out classic tunes into the early hours.

Luckily we meet at the more sober hour of 5pm to discuss the state of the
Conservative Party after a difficult start to the year. Trailing Labour by
double figures in the polls, the party also finds its support being squeezed by
the rise of the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) and its colourful
leader, Nigel Farage, another politician who likes giving interviews in pubs.

With Tory MPs grumbling about the leadership, the party's high command has
chosen a strange time to pick fights with its core support - most notably over
forcing through plans to allow same-sex couples to marry and discriminating
against stay-at-home mothers by removing child benefit from wealthier
singleearner families and restricting financial help with child care to women
who return to work.

Mr Shapps became party chairman, succeeding Baroness Warsi, last September but
did not face his first significant electoral test until last month's Eastleigh
by-election, in which the party was pushed into third place behind the Liberal
Democrats and Ukip.

"I was always perfectly realistic," he says. "Only 2,800 votes separated first
and third place. This was an election that could have crumbled three different
ways." The protest vote did not go to Labour, he adds.

The problem for the Tories is that it went to Ukip - a pattern which could be
repeated in next month's local council elections, next year's elections to the
European Parliament and the general election the following year. In all three
contests Ukip is likely to squeeze the Conservative vote with Labour the
ultimate beneficiaries.

Mr Shapps's strategy, however, is not to treat Ukip as a significant threat. At
one point, he refers to "another party" almost as if identifying Mr Farage's
band would be slightly distasteful. His stance will disappoint traditional
Conservatives who want their party to engage more with Ukip on issues such as
Europe and immigration. He prefers to focus on the "big picture" - Labour vs the
Conservatives.

"Looking at the horizon, the decision everyone has to make in two years' time is
do they want Ed Miliband or David Cameron walking down Downing Street as the
next prime minister." Mr Cameron has offered an in-out referendum on Britain's
membership of the European Union, he points out. He has accused Mr Miliband of
delivering false warnings about what would happen if such a referendum offer was
made. "He said Nissan wouldn't invest in this country. Mr Miliband, you were
wrong. Where is David Cameron today? At the Nissan plant where they're building
the first 100 per cent electric car with an investment of £250 million."

Mr Shapps also shows little inclination to acknowledge the case made by
stay-athome mothers who, backed by both the OECD think tank and the Bishop of
Exeter, claim they are being penalised by the tax system. Why do senior Tories
in government appear so willing to antagonise their natural supporters in
traditional families? The party chairman keeps stressing he wants to promote
measures to help all families, not just ones where one parent does not work. He
also emphasises that Britain has a record number of women in work.

"What matters to every family in the country is that the cost of living is
controlled. We're living through incredibly difficult times, and budgets have
been squeezed for a long time since 2008. That's why things like the council tax
freeze again means a 9 per cent real cut in the council tax. This is a household
budget issue, it helps families, mums or dads. If you believe in staying at home
and looking after your kids, and bringing your kids up we think it is a
fantastic thing to do. We pay every tribute to you, we want to make it easier
for you. On the other hand if you want to get back into the workplace the cost
of child care in this country is just unbelievably high."

He adds: "The reality is in government you have to choose and make decisions. We
want to do the thing which is good and productive and which helps families,
which is to help them to work if they want to."

Time and again Mr Shapps repeats the Tories' latest mantra, that the party wants
to help those "who want to work hard and get on in life".

He claims the Coalition has been able to implement some core Tory-style
policies, including bringing down the deficit (although not nearly as fast as
planned) and taking steps to reduce net migration. He also produces new figures
showing that 780,000 people, who were claiming incapacity benefit, decided to
drop their claims before going through the rigorous medical tests that are a key
part of the Government's Work Programme, designed to cut the number who are
long-term unemployed or off sick. It is a startlingly high number - more than
one third of all such claimants - and does illustrate, as Mr Shapps puts it,
that many claimants have been "trapped" in welfare dependency for decades.

He describes the old system as "evil" and says Labour used sickness benefits to
"hide the unemployed".

"My argument," he says, "is not that people were trying to play the system as
much as people were forced into a system that played them." If you want real
Tory policies on other issues, he suggests, such as changes to the
much-criticised human rights regime, including repealing Labour's Human Rights
Act, you need a majority Conservative government.

What are the chances of a majority next time round?

To his credit Mr Shapps doesn't make glib victory claims, and his answer is
disarmingly frank. "I think it's up in the air. But there's a good chance, all
to play for. I would literally put it at 50-50."

As if seized by the need to strike a more optimistic tone, however, he later
declares: "I won't even contemplate the idea of not going out there to win an
overall majority."

Mr Shapps has seemingly boundless energy, looks younger than his 44 years, and
is sometimes cited as a future Tory leader himself. He is rich - he flew his
private plane to a recording of Any Questions - but is a grammar school boy who
comes across as anything but a toff. He made money in printing during his
business career, sometimes using aliases such as "Michael Green", a point which
caused him some grief when it was picked up by the media last year. He makes a
joke about it now - "I've had a life outside politics. Guardian readers would
say I've had two lives" - and it does not seem to have done him any lasting
political damage.

So, quoting Boris Johnson, "if the ball came out loose from the back of a
scrum", would he fancy a crack at the top job?

He answers, somewhat strangely, in cosmic terms, observing that human life is
short - "80-100 years while the planet's been around for billions of years, the
universe for 14 billion." He adds: "My great hope for my speck of time on this
planet would be that I live and die, and that what I leave behind has made some
kind of impression and has been for the better in terms of my family and friends
and, in my case, public service.

"That's what I want to do and I'm perfectly happy doing it in the sort of roles
that have come along so far, as a minister and party chairman and in the
cabinet. I don't spend lots of time thinking about what I shall do in the
future."

It is not exactly a denial. But, as Mr Shapps is the first to point out, the
time frame he is focused on now is a much shorter one: the 766 days until the
next general election.

Ann Widdecombe: Page 27

Letters: Page 29

'People didn't play the benefits system as much as it plays them'

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grant Shapps, the chairman of the Conservative Party, in his local pub
The Brookmans in Brookmans Park, Herts, where he sometimes brings his family and
is fond of taking the microphone at the occasional late night karaoke session
DAVID ROSE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 31, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Beer, Karaoke and a mission to dispel ' Tory toffs' image;
interview ; Grant Shapps sets out to show his party's support for ordinary
people, writes Patrick Hennessy

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1361 words


THE MESSAGE is literally in black and white. The Conservative Party chairman is
conducting an interview with The Sunday Telegraph, pint of Guinness in hand, in
his local pub, just a week after the first cut in beer duty since 1959.

The Tories, it is being made plain, are not a bunch of outof-touch toffs. If
they are to win a majority at the next general election, they must show they are
fully in tune with ordinary people, who like to nip out to the pub at the end of
the working week.

Grant Shapps loves coming to The Brookmans, in his Hertfordshire constituency of
Welwyn Hatfield. He and his wife Belinda sometimes take their three children
there and he confesses to a fondness for the venue's karaoke sessions, where
regulars attest he can be seen belting out classic tunes into the early hours.

Luckily we meet at the more sober hour of 5pm to discuss the state of the
Conservative Party after a difficult start to the year. Trailing Labour by
double figures in the polls, the party also finds its support being squeezed by
the rise of the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) and its colourful
leader, Nigel Farage, another politician who likes giving interviews in pubs.

With Tory MPs grumbling about the leadership, the party's high command has
chosen a strange time to pick fights with its core support - most notably over
forcing through plans to allow same-sex couples to marry and discriminating
against stay-at-home mothers by removing child benefit from wealthier
singleearner families and restricting financial help with child care to women
who return to work.

Mr Shapps became party chairman, succeeding Baroness Warsi, last September but
did not face his first significant electoral test until last month's Eastleigh
by-election, in which the party was pushed into third place behind the Liberal
Democrats and Ukip.

"I was always perfectly realistic," he says. "Only 2,800 votes separated first
and third place. This was an election that could have crumbled three different
ways." The protest vote did not go to Labour, he adds.

The problem for the Tories is that it went to Ukip - a pattern which could be
repeated in May's local council elections, next year's elections to the European
Parliament and the general election the following year. In all three contests
Ukip is likely to squeeze the Conservative vote, with Labour the ultimate
beneficiaries.

Mr Shapps's strategy, however, is not to treat Ukip as a significant threat. At
one point, he refers to "another party" almost as if identifying Mr Farage's
band would be slightly distasteful. His stance will disappoint traditional
Conservatives who want their party to engage more with Ukip on issues such as
Europe and immigration. He prefers to focus on the "big picture" - Labour vs the
Conservatives.

"Looking at the horizon, the decision everyone has to make in two years' time is
do they want Ed Miliband or David Cameron walking down Downing Street as the
next prime minister." Mr Cameron has offered an in-out referendum on Britain's
membership of the European Union, he points out. He has accused Mr Miliband of
delivering false warnings about what would happen if such a referendum offer was
made. "He said Nissan wouldn't invest in this country. Mr Miliband, you were
wrong. Where is David Cameron today? At the Nissan plant where they're building
the first 100 per cent electric car with an investment of £250 million."

Mr Shapps also shows little inclination to acknowledge the case made by
stay-athome mothers who, backed by both the OECD think tank and the Bishop of
Exeter, claim they are being penalised by the tax system. Why do senior Tories
in government appear so willing to antagonise their natural supporters in
traditional families? The party chairman keeps stressing he wants to promote
measures to help all families, not just ones where one parent does not work. He
also emphasises that Britain has a record number of women in work.

"What matters to every family in the country is that the cost of living is
controlled. We're living through incredibly difficult times, and budgets have
been squeezed for a long time since 2008. That's why things like the council tax
freeze again means a 9 per cent real cut in the council tax. This is a household
budget issue, it helps families, mums or dads. If you believe in staying at home
and looking after your kids, and bringing your kids up we think it is a
fantastic thing to do. We pay every tribute to you, we want to make it easier
for you. On the other hand if you want to get back into the workplace the cost
of child care in this country is just unbelievably high." He adds: "The reality
is in government you have to choose and make decisions. We want to do the thing
which is good and productive and which helps families, which is to help them to
work if they want to."

Time and again Mr Shapps repeats the Tories' latest mantra, that the party wants
to help those "who want to work hard and get on in life".

He claims the Coalition has been able to implement some core Tory-style
policies, including bringing down the deficit (although not nearly as fast as
planned) and taking steps to reduce net migration. He also produces new figures
showing that 780,000 people, who were claiming incapacity benefit, decided to
drop their claims before going through the rigorous medical tests that are a key
part of the Government's Work Programme, designed to cut the number who are
long-term unemployed or off sick. It is a startlingly high number - more than
one third of all such claimants - and does illustrate, as Mr Shapps puts it,
that many claimants have been "trapped" in welfare dependency for decades.

He describes the old system as "evil" and says Labour used sickness benefits to
"hide the unemployed".

"My argument," he says, "is not that people were trying to play the system as
much as people were forced into a system that played them." If you want real
Tory policies on other issues, he suggests, such as changes to the
much-criticised human rights regime, including repealing Labour's Human Rights
Act, you need a majority Conservative government.

What are the chances of a majority next time round? To his credit Mr Shapps
doesn't make glib victory claims, and his answer is disarmingly frank. "I think
it's up in the air. But there's a good chance, all to play for. I would
literally put it at 50-50."

As if seized by the need to strike a more optimistic tone, however, he later
declares: "I won't even contemplate the idea of not going out there to win an
overall majority."

Mr Shapps has seemingly boundless energy, looks younger than his 44 years, and
is sometimes cited as a future Tory leader himself. He is rich - he flew his
private plane to a recording of Any Questions - but is a grammar school boy who
comes across as anything but a toff. He made money in printing during his
business career, sometimes using aliases such as "Michael Green", a point which
caused him some grief when it was picked up by the media last year. He makes a
joke about it now - "I've had a life outside politics. Guardian readers would
say I've had two lives" - and it does not seem to have done him any lasting
political damage.

So, quoting Boris Johnson, "if the ball came out loose from the back of a
scrum", would he fancy a crack at the top job? He answers, somewhat strangely,
in cosmic terms, observing that human life is short - "80-100 years while the
planet's been around for billions of years, the universe for 14 billion." He
adds: "My great hope for my speck of time on this planet would be that I live
and die, and that what I leave behind has made some kind of impression and has
been for the better in terms of my family and friends and, in my case, public
service.

"That's what I want to do and I'm perfectly happy doing it in the sort of roles
that have come along so far, as a minister and party chairman and in the
cabinet. I don't spend lots of time thinking about what I shall do in the
future."

It is not exactly a denial.

But, as Mr Shapps is the first to point out, the time frame he is focused on now
is a much shorter one: the 766 days until the next general election. Ann
Widdecombe: Page 27 Letters: Page 29

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grant Shapps, the chairman of the Conservative Party, in his local pub
The Brookmans in Brookmans Park, Herts, where he sometimes brings his family and
is fond of taking the microphone at the occasional late night karaoke session
DAVID ROSE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 31, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Listen to true Tories, Mr Cameron, or you'll let Labour back in again;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 665 words


SIR - When is the Tory party going to wake up to the reality of its situation?
Could it be that it hasn't got the stamina for a second term in office? The way
things are going, the Tories will lose the majority of their supporters as they
are totally out of touch with reality.

They fail to concentrate on matters of real importance for their supporters -
immigration, foreign aid and EU membership. Instead they want to support gay
marriage, more taxation and passing more responsibility to Brussels.

Please wake up soon Mr Cameron, or you will find the party in a real backwater
with Miliband, Balls and Co ruling the roost (God forbid). C R Markley Hinckley,
Leicestershire

SIR - David Cameron is a performer, not a leader. On so many issues we have bold
rhetoric but either no action (recognising marriage in the tax system), action
postponed (EU referendum), action reversed (on press freedom) or short-sighted
action (green energy that raises costs to industry and households).

Instead we have a preoccupation with gay marriage, wind farms, failure to hold
the head of the NHS to account for allowing patients to die, the decimation of
our defence capability, and now measures to limit immigration that will unravel
before they are implemented. There is no sense of a clear conservative direction
of travel or practical wisdom.

I no longer trust what he says.

Malcolm Williams Southsea, Hampshire

SIR - While I agree with your Ukip-switching correspondents (Letters, March 24),
I would encourage them to make their voting intentions clear to their local MP.

That is the only way the Conservative Party, that we once supported, will get
the message. David Andrews Bacup, Lancashire

SIR - Why, when the economy is in such a desperate state, does overseas aid
remain ringfenced? Why, when evermounting evidence suggests that "man-made
global warming" is a myth, do our leaders not repeal the Climate Change Act and
its associated subsidies and taxes, which are damaging our international
competitiveness and increasing fuel poverty among the most vulnerable here at
home?

These are policies that bestow no discernible benefit upon our own people. They
were meant to demonstrate the Tories' "caring side" - but is this how David
Cameron and his fellow "modernisers" wish to be remembered?

Let us hope that reason may prevail and they decide that it would be better if
posterity were to judge them on the basis of an outbreak of common sense and a
genuine concern for Britain and its people. Who knows, maybe then they would
outflank the Ukip threat and actually win an election.

John Waine Nuneaton, Warwickshire

SIR - To win the next election, the Conservatives must rejuvenate their local
organisations and form an alliance with Ukip. Keith Ferris Coxheath, Kent

SIR - It baffles me that Government members such as Michael Gove cannot seem to
comprehend that people voting for Ukip actually want Ukip to come to power.

This, along with Mr Cameron's disparaging comments about Ukip voters, shows a
glaring contempt for the electorate. Having refused to change course after his
disastrous Eastleigh result, Mr Cameron's disregard for what voters want casts
his hopes of a second term further out to sea.

My vote will go to Ukip not out of protest but because. as a wellread and
well-informed voter living in the real world, I actually want Ukip to be in
government. Garrett FitzGerald Loughton, Essex

SIR - At the age of 79 I am one of those alive today who remember the horrors of
the Blitz, the scarcity of food due to rationing and the impending threat of a
brutal Nazi occupation. What brought us through all this turmoil is that the
British are the greatest of survivors.

Leaving the EU may make us poorer in the short term, but we shall recover and
survive. My belief is that we shall survive the EU itself.

As for my voting intentions, they are now leaning heavily towards Ukip, as they
are the only party that will strive to give me back what I want most - my
country.

Keith Hedges Wheatley, Oxfordshire

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A beleaguered David Cameron at the EU Leaders summit in February
ZUMA\REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 24, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip celebrates with cheers, souvenirs and a rallying call to black and Asian
voters

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1201 words


WHEN THE UK Independence Party decided to hold its spring conference at Exeter
University, you may have expected the party to fall foul of a student prank.

In fact, undergraduates could be seen flocking around the merchandise stalls
yesterday, snapping up the "EU Out" badges and canvas bags emblazoned with the
slogan, "The EU is not my bag".

In what could be an indication of the party's current momentum, one of the
bestselling items was a wooden, spatula-shaped device, developed by a Ukip
member, to protect the knuckles and fingers of activists as they deliver
leaflets through doors.

"These have been doing very well," said an attendant. "People say they are often
hurting their fingers with letter boxes or being snapped at by dogs."

Ties flashing the pound sign were selling well among the 700 delegates who were
there for a series of speeches and strategy meetings. Organisers said that
turnout was 30 per cent up on the same event last year.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, and his members have plenty of reasons for being
chipper at the moment. Recent polls have put his party at 17 per cent, the
highest in Ukip's 13-year history.

Last weekend, research commissioned by this newspaper laid bare just how
attractive Mr Farage is becoming in Tory heartlands.

The party came second in recent by-elections held in Eastleigh, Middlesbrough
and Rotherham. In the House of Commons Conservative MPs fret with one another
about "how much Ukip" is in their constituencies.

Yesterday, with his party filling the Great Hall at Exeter University, Mr Farage
mocked Westminster politicians for underestimating the party.

"A protest vote? Mid-term blues?" he bellowed. "No, we are seeing a wholesale
rejection of the career politicians. We have had enough. They all look the same.
They all sound the same. And not one of them is in politics for principle."

He added: "They are all enthusiasts for building ugly, useless and expensive
onshore and offshore wind farms that are despoiling Britain's landscapes and
seascapes."

Another bête noire of disaffected Tories is immigration.

"Nobody should be able to claim benefits until they have been in this country
for five years, paid their taxes and obeyed the law," he said. He reminded the
delegates, many who could not find seats in the packed hall, that he had been
railing against the European Union's love of taking other people's money long
before last week's plan to raid Cypriot savers as part of the island's botched
bail-out.

"But even I thought they would never stoop to stealing from people's bank
accounts," Mr Farage said.

The crowd hooted with laughter at the idea of a Tory majority in 2015.

The cheer when Mr Farage ruled out any deal with the Tories under Mr Cameron was
the loudest of the day.

The Prime Minister famously dismissed the party as one of "loonies, fruitcakes
and closet racists". But delegates yesterday bridled at the insinuation.

Winston McKenzie, a boxerturned-politician, urged the party to reach out to
ethnic minority voters. The Jamaican-born politician said that the party should
not consider black and Asian voters off limits. Many would welcome a party such
as Ukip that takes a tough stance on law order, he said. Other keynote speakers
included Diane James, the runner-up in Eastleigh, and Slavi Binev, a Bulgarian
MEP, who joked: "I have a return ticket to Sofia and, while I am here, I am not
claiming bene-fits. I have not brought my family nor my horse and cart."

The party says it is now attracting well-heeled professionals in their thirties
and forties, just the types who could one day stand as MPs, and some of these
were in attendance.

Richard Turnell, 34, who works in insurance, joined Ukip earlier this month. He
lives in Bournville, in Birmingham, with his wife, Anna, a solicitor, and their
three-year-old son. "David Cameron has been a great letdown," he said. "At
times, it seems he is ignoring anyone outside London. Anna and I both work, but
even we still find it hard to cope with the cost of living.

"The Government just doesn't seem to be helping ordinary people like us."

Charlie Sammonds, 17, from Putney, west London, was disappointed that he could
not join the party until his 18th birthday later this year.

"Ukip is the only party with sensible policies," he said, as he cast his eye
over Ukip memorabilia on sale. "Controlling immigration... If it continues, the
NHS will not be able to cope. Housing shortages will get worse.

"Nigel Farage is a very good speaker. He believes in democracy. The EU is very
antidemocratic."

Last week, Victoria Ayling, a former Conservative parliamentary candidate who
contested - and nearly won - Great Grimsby at the 2010 election, joined Ukip.

"I have been uncomfortable for some time with the Conservatives' policies and
leadership," said Mrs Ayling. "The leadership has moved away not just from
party's members, but also ordinary people who work and pay taxes."

She was unimpressed with Mr Cameron's deal to cut the EU's budget, even though
it initially helped the Tories in the polls. "Britain's contributions will still
rise," she said.

"Then there is the debacle over gay marriage. To overturn centuries of tradition
and forget the sacrament just for a fad. Nothing against gays, but it's just
inappropriate.

"The Government hasn't got immigration down and because of our membership of the
EU, we are at risk of having 29 million Bulgarians and Romanians coming to
settle here.

"There are ways of preventing these migrants getting access to benefits, but I
don't think David Cameron has the political will to do that. Instead, his
approach is based on spin and shallow promises."

Chris Lagdon, who served as a Conservative councillor in the New Forest for 12
years, is another recent defector. He described himself as a "council house
Conservative", someone who represented Tories from working-class backgrounds who
are feeling the most pain from the squeeze on living standards.

"I think David Cameron doesn't get what tough times ordinary people are going
through," he said. "He's lost touch with real people... Perhaps he never had
it."

A Tory party member for 15 years, Mr Lagdon doubts any prime minister could
renegotiate a good deal for Britain in Europe.

"Margaret Thatcher is a shining light to me," he added. "If she couldn't get a
deal for us in Europe, no one will. Mr Cameron says there will be a referendum
if he wins the next general election. That's like me saying I'll give you a
million pounds if I win the pools. I reckon the odds are about the same. Ukip
have got the right idea. We should be pulling out of Europe." But other
defectors to Ukip insist that the party's momentum is not down to the EU at all.
"I like Ukip's support of grammar schools and the Armed Forces," said Elliot
Nichols, 24, from Waverley in Surrey.

"I'm sick of David Cameron and George Osborne claiming they are making cuts when
they are actually borrowing more than Labour did." A former Conservative
activist, he says that there is far more of a "buzz" around Ukip meetings than
those Tory meetings he attended.

"Ukip feel like they actually want to do something," he said. "They are looking
at actually doing radical things."

Letters: Page 33

'It's a wholesale rejection of the career politicians'

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Delegates buy gifts at the conference, including a Ukip necklace
From the left: Winston McKenzie, a Jamaican-born boxer-turned-politician, Nigel
Farage, the party's buoyant leader, and Diane James, who came second behind the
Liberal Democrats in the Eastleigh by-election last month, at the Ukip spring
conference in Exeter
STEPHEN SIMPSON/LNP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 24, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Only Ukip represents our views now, say disillusioned ex-Tories;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 768 words


SIR - I have voted Conservative for many years, but in recent months have been
alarmed to witness David Cameron focusing on the wrong issues.

I had always thought that the party was vitally interested in strengthening
families and supporting traditional values.

I do not think that I am alone in my intention to vote for the UK Independence
Party. It is not going to encourage same-sex marriage, and nor is it going to
ignore people's wish to see decision-making restored from Brussels to our own
political representatives.

Rev Robert Weissman London E18

SIR - It should not be a surprise that "Ukip steals a March on Tories" (report,
March 17). By dismissing the increase in the Ukip vote that relegated the Tories
to third place in Eastleigh as a Eurosceptic protest vote, David Cameron further
illustrated his arrogance, lack of judgment and how out of touch he is with core
Conservatives.

His policies on immigration, gay marriage, membership of the EU, taxation, law
and order and the economy mean that Ukip best represents the views of many more
Conservatives than he is prepared to acknowledge.

A true Conservative leader such as David Davis or Richard Drax (not Theresa May)
is urgently needed to contest the next election.

Clifford Baxter Warlingham, Surrey

SIR - If the Prime Minister wishes to diminish the Ukip influence on the
forthcoming general election he should hold an in-out referendum on EU
membership now.

Even as one who would prefer to be free but poor (should poverty be the price)
to being the slave of an unelected bureaucracy, I would find that pitch
difficult to resist.

Julian Vallance Follifoot, West Yorkshire

SIR - Keith Pearson (Letters, March 17) writes that "disillusioned
ex-Conservatives who seem disposed to vote Ukip ... should be aware that to do
so is effectively to vote Labour". Not if enough of them do it.

Mr Cameron seems now to be coming round to the realisation that a vote for Ukip
is just that. Craftily, he has claimed another two years to see not only how the
wind is blowing, but how strongly.

Stanley Eckersley Pudsey, West Yorkshire

SIR - The promise to renegotiate membership terms is doomed to failure. It is
only a delaying tactic to get the Government past the general election in 2015.

If the promise of a referendum wins the Conservative Party the election, it will
be shelved just like the promise to raise the inheritance threshold - which by
general consent helped win the previous election for the Tories - was also
shelved.

Nigel Farage, by contrast, takes a realistic approach and dismisses the fanciful
ideas of renegotiation and referendums. His manifesto states bluntly that we
will withdraw, so if you vote for Ukip you are voting to withdraw from the EU.

Peter Morley Southwick, West Sussex

SIR - I can explain why, according to your ICM poll, the Tory faithful favour
David Cameron's policy on the EU over Ukip's (report, March 17). It is an
unthinkingly loyal feeling that the leader might have some crafty means of
renegotiating our terms of membership and repatriating sufficient powers to be
presented as acceptable to the people.

The in-out referendum, since he cannot guarantee re-election in 2015, is pie in
the sky.

The brutal truth is that the EU constitution, confirmed by the Lisbon Treaty,
does not allow any such repatriation. Negotiation would only occur if Article 50
(notice to quit the EU) were invoked, which Mr Cameron will not do.

The honourable approach would be to start the negotiation for the return of
powers now and, having demonstrated that limited or no progress can be achieved
by the end of 2014, call the referendum immediately and defy the other parties
to vote against it.

Don Anderson London SW19

SIR - To vote for Ukip is to vote Labour? (Letters, March 17) If only that was
the case. There are three certainties in life and one of them is Hexham will
re-elect a Conservative MP in 2015.

Whether I vote in the next election depends on whether I wish to register a
protest vote.

A vote for Ukip clearly shows dissatisfaction with Mr Cameron's empty talk of a
referendum. No other party offers the electorate any chance to display their
opposition to membership of the EU.

Dennis Armstrong Prudhoe, Northumberland

SIR - You say that the promise of renegotiation of EU membership terms followed
by a referendum is "simultaneously boldly conservative and... reasonable"
(leading article, March 17).

Conservative? Hardly. This was the tactic used by Harold Wilson. Reasonable?
Certainly not - the only way the other EU members would agree to any variation
is if we give notice of our intention to leave.

Michael Canton Lopen, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 17, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

True Tory policies are the way to head off Ukip;
The Sunday Telegraph ESTABLISHED IN 1961

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 508 words


In the past few weeks we have written about the need for David Cameron to focus
on what really matters - turning the economy round and reforming public
services. We have voiced the concern that failure to project the right sense of
priorities risks alienating traditional Tory voters and costing Mr Cameron the
next election.

The ICM poll published in today's newspaper suggests that this is indeed the
case. It shows that a key group of Right-of-centre voters - Conservative-Ukip
"switchers" - are leaning towards supporting Ukip at the next general election.
The party that Mr Cameron once wrote off as the preserve of "closet racists,
fruitcakes and loonies" is striking a chord on the issues of immigration,
government spending and traditional families. Conservative-Ukip switchers seem
to prefer Ukip's policies on these issues to those of the Tories, and they also
rate Nigel Farage's leadership style above that of Mr Cameron. Mr Farage's party
will not, of course, win the 2015 election, but 52 per cent of all voters think
that it will be a factor none the less. The Eastleigh by-election was not a
one-off protest vote: Ukip, it seems, is here to stay.

Mr Cameron is in a difficult situation, hamstrung by partnership with the Lib
Dems and tough economic conditions. Despite this, he has reduced net immigration
and committed the Coalition to austerity. He has shown admirable boldness in
refusing to change course. Few would want to see a return to the reckless
spending of the Labour era. Mr Cameron's approach seems to be paying off among
floating voters - a large category of electors with no strong preference for any
party - who signal that they would prefer the Tories to remain moderate. That is
the good news. The bad news is that the Prime Minister faces a dilemma: the
perception of moderation that keeps him competitive among floaters is losing him
support among Conservative-Ukip switchers. He must find a way to reconcile these
different demands.

Our poll gives some hint of how he might do it. Ukip is probably most associated
with its Euroscepticism, yet one area of policy where Mr Cameron beats Mr Farage
among Conservative-Ukip switchers is, interestingly, Europe. This is probably
because the Tories have embraced an innovative policy that undermines the Ukip
rationale for withdrawal from the EU. The promise of a renegotiation of
membership terms followed by a referendum on whether or not to stay in is
simultaneously boldly conservative and far more reasonable than Ukip's
alternative. It is a good example of Mr Cameron's vision and political talent
reaping rewards.

To win the next general election, the Prime Minister has to apply those
qualities to generating economic growth, finding new ways to make sensible
savings and recapturing the imagination of the Conservative-Ukip switchers. If
he does not succeed, Ukip risks splitting the centre-Right vote and, ironically,
putting into power something that no centre-Right voter actually wants - a
Labour government.

The Prime Minister's vision and talent can reap rewards

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 17, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip gains ground on immigration

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1227 words


A NEW opinion poll today lays bare the threat to David Cameron and the
Conservatives from the rise of the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip).

The ICM survey for The Sunday Telegraph shows that Ukip's policies are favoured
over those of the Tories among key Right-of-centre voters - particularly on
immigration, government spending and same-sex marriage.

The Right-of-centre group, identified in the poll and dubbed Conservative-Ukip
"switchers", are those who say they have yet to decide which of the two parties
to vote for. They represent around one in 10 of all voters and their support
will be crucial to Mr Cameron's general election hopes.

However, the survey found that they rate Ukip's Nigel Farage as a better party
leader than the Prime Minister by 37 per cent to 32 per cent.

The Conservative-Ukip switchers would prefer Boris Johnson to Mr Cameron as a
Conservative leader now, although the Prime Minister is overwhelmingly ahead
among definite Tory voters, by 58 per cent to 20 per cent.

Both groups place Theresa May, the Home Secretary, who colleagues believe is "on
manoeuvres" to succeed Mr Cameron, in a clear third place. A further sign of her
rising political profile.

Overall, the poll gives Labour a six-point lead. Ed Miliband's party is on 36
per cent, with the Tories on 30 per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 18 per
cent under ICM's "Wisdom Index", which asks voters to predict the result of the
next general election.

Right-wing MPs and activists have been pushing Mr Cameron to adopt a more
"core-Conservative" agenda in an attempt to resist the rise of Ukip, which
pushed the Tories into third place in the recent Eastleigh by-election.

They fear that Ukip will split the Conservative vote in May's local elections -
handing Labour control of a string of councils and dealing the Tories a heavy
defeat which would place Mr Cameron's position under further scrutiny.

Today's ICM poll shows that one area where Mr Cameron appears to have succeeded
in blunting the rival party's threat is on Europe. His policy of repatriating
powers from Brussels and then staging an "in/out" referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU is more popular with all categories of voters than Ukip's
policy of immediate withdrawal.

Among all voters, the Conservative stance beats its rival by 54 per cent to 28
per cent, while among the Conservative-Ukip switchers the gap is narrowed to
50-43 in favour of Mr Cameron's policy.

On immigration, seen as more and more of a key issue for voters, Ukip's policy
of an immediate freeze beats the Conservatives' move to set an annual "cap" on
migrants across the board.

All voters prefer the Ukip line to that of the Tories by 53 per cent to 36 per
cent, while Conservative-Ukip switchers are in favour of Mr Farage's party's
stance by 62 per cent to 34 per cent. Floating voters, a wider category than the
"switchers", including those who do not express a strong preference for any
party, also prefer the Ukip line.

Same-sex marriage, a touchstone issue for many Conservatives and one which is
blamed for a fall in membership of the party after Mr Cameron pushed through
moves to make it legal, also sees the Tories behind Ukip in the search for swing
voters.

Among all voters there is support for allowing same-sex unions - with 54 per
cent backing the move and 34 per cent opposing it. Floating voters also back Mr
Cameron. Among Conservative-Ukip switchers, however, 51 per cent oppose same-sex
marriage, along with Mr Farage's party, and 39 per cent support it.

Mr Cameron's policy of "ring fencing" whole areas of government spending -
including health, pensioners and international aid - to protect them from cuts
elsewhere is backed by 45 per cent of all voters, compared with 40 per cent who
favour Ukip's policy of across the board cuts in spending.

However, once again, this is reversed among Conservative-Ukip switchers - with
64 per cent of this key group favouring Mr Farage's party's stance and just 28
per cent backing the Tory policy.

The likely staying power of Mr Farage's party - still seen by many as mainly a
receptacle for protest votes - is underlined by 52 per cent of all voters
believing it is "here to stay" while 24 per cent say it will be largely
forgotten about by the time of the next election in May 2015.

Voters as a whole see Mr Cameron as a better party leader than Mr Farage - by 33
per cent to 29 per cent - but again the pattern is reversed among
Conservative-Ukip switchers, 37 per cent of whom prefer the Ukip leader with 32
per cent choosing the Prime Minister.

Mr Johnson is the numberone choice among all voters when asked who would make
the best Tory leader now. Some 28 per cent choose the London mayor, with 23 per
cent choosing Mr Cameron and 11 per cent naming Mrs May. The Home Secretary is a
long way ahead of two other contenders - Michael Gove, the Education Secretary,
(two per cent) and George Osborne, the Chancellor (also two per cent). Just one
per cent of definite Tory voters back Mr Osborne, once seen as Mr Cameron's heir
apparent.

Among Conservative-Ukip switchers, Mr Johnson leads on 30 per cent with Mrs May
(21 per cent) just five points behind the Prime Minister who is on 26 per cent.

Richard Drax, the Conservative MP for South Dorset, said: "The Eastleigh
by-election showed that all main parties are not dealing with the issues that
people want us to: uncontrolled immigration and the EU.

"Ukip are significant and the fact they did so well at the Eastleigh by-election
proves it. They are touching on a number of people's raw nerves. We as a party
are not answering peoples' concerns effectively."

ICM Research interviewed an online sample of 1,990 adults aged 18-plus on March
13-15 2013. Data has been weighted to reflect the profile of the GB population.
ICM is a member of the British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

Key % Con % Ukip Q: Which party has the best policy on same-sex marriage? 55 54
52 Q: Which party''s overall policies do you prefer? 51 39 34 33 33 3232 32 All
voters Floating voters Con-Ukip Switchers All voters Floating voters Con-Ukip
Switchers Q: Which party has best policy on the European Union? Q: Who is the
more effective party leader- David Cameron or Nigel Farage? 37 57 54 50 33 43 32
31 28 29 28 25 All voters Floating voters Con-Ukip Switchers Q: Which party has
the best policy on government spending? 64 45 40 46 39 28 All voters Floating
voters Con-Ukip Switchers All voters Floating voters Con-Ukip Switchers Q: Is
Ukip here to stay or will it be forgotten by 2015? 79 Q: Which party has the
best policy on immigration? Here to stay Forgotten by 2015 52 62 53 53 50 38 36
34 24 2 11 All voters Floating voters Con-Ukip Switchers All voters Floating
voters Con-Ukip Switchers

Q: What are the main reasons for the rise of Ukip? Disillusionment with main
parties 57 64 54 Only party that stands up for Britain on immigration 63 Q: Who
would make best Conservative leader now? 41 43 BORIS JOHNSON 30 Want to take UK
out of EU 28 20 51 31 31 DAVID CAMERON 58 Only party in touch with ordinary
people 17 17 30 26 23 Only party with traditional British values 15 17 THERESA
MAY 211 111 Only party with a leader who is different from the rest MICHAEL GOVE
7 11 7 21 2 Something else GEORGE OSBORNE 10 12 52 11 % All voters % All voters
% Definite Tory voters % Floating voters % Con-Ukip Switchers % Con-Ukip
Switchers

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Cameron playing rugby with children in east London yesterday
Nigel Farage is rated as the better party leader by 'switchers'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 17, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ukip gains on immigration

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 972 words


A NEW opinion poll today lays bare the threat to David Cameron and the
Conservatives from the rise of the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip).

The ICM survey for The Sunday Telegraph shows that Ukip's policies are favoured
over those of the Tories among key Right-of-centre voters - particularly on
immigration, government spending and same-sex marriage.

The Right-of-centre group, identified in the poll and dubbed Conservative-Ukip
"switchers", are those who say they have yet to decide which of the two parties
to vote for. They represent around one in 10 of all voters and their support
will be crucial to Mr Cameron's general election hopes.

However, the survey found that they rate Ukip's Nigel Farage as a better party
leader than the Prime Minister by 37 per cent to 32 per cent.

The Conservative-Ukip switchers would prefer Boris Johnson to Mr Cameron as a
Conservative leader now, although the Prime Minister is overwhelmingly ahead
among definite Tory voters, by 58 per cent to 20 per cent.

Both groups place Theresa May, the Home Secretary, who colleagues believe is "on
manoeuvres" to succeed Mr Cameron, in a clear third place. A further sign of her
rising political profile.

Overall, the poll gives Labour a six-point lead. Ed Miliband's party is on 36
per cent, with the Tories on 30 per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 18 per
cent under ICM's "Wisdom Index", which asks voters to predict the result of the
next general election.

Right-wing MPs and activists have been pushing Mr Cameron to adopt a more
"core-Conservative" agenda in an attempt to resist the rise of Ukip, which
pushed the Tories into third place in the recent Eastleigh by-election.

They fear that Ukip will split the Conservative vote in May's local elections -
handing Labour control of a string of councils and dealing the Tories a heavy
defeat which would place Mr Cameron's position under further scrutiny.

Today's ICM poll shows that one area where Mr Cameron appears to have succeeded
in blunting the rival party's threat is on Europe. His policy of repatriating
powers from Brussels and then staging an "in/out" referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU is more popular with all categories of voters than Ukip's
policy of immediate withdrawal. Among all voters, the Conservative stance beats
its rival by 54 per cent to 28 per cent, while among the Conservative-Ukip
switchers the gap is narrowed to 50-43 in favour of Mr Cameron's policy.

On immigration, seen as more and more of a key issue for voters, Ukip's policy
of an immediate freeze beats the Conservatives' move to set an annual "cap" on
migrants across the board.

All voters prefer the Ukip line to that of the Tories by 53 per cent to 36 per
cent, while Conservative-Ukip switchers are in favour of Mr Farage's party's
stance by 62 per cent to 34 per cent. Floating voters, a wider category than the
"switchers", including those who do not express a strong preference for any
party, also prefer the Ukip line.

Same-sex marriage, a touchstone issue for many Conservatives and one which is
blamed for a fall in membership of the party after Mr Cameron pushed through
moves to make it legal, also sees the Tories behind Ukip in the search for swing
voters.

Among all voters there is support for allowing same-sex unions - with 54 per
cent backing the move and 34 per cent opposing it. Floating voters also back Mr
Cameron. Among Conservative-Ukip switchers, however, 51 per cent oppose same-sex
marriage, along with Mr Farage's party, and 39 per cent support it.

Mr Cameron's policy of "ring fencing" whole areas of government spending -
including health, pensioners and international aid - to protect them from cuts
elsewhere is backed by 45 per cent of all voters, compared with 40 per cent who
favour Ukip's policy of across the board cuts in spending.

However, once again, this is reversed among Conservative-Ukip switchers - with
64 per cent of this key group favouring Mr Farage's party's stance and just 28
per cent backing the Tory policy.

The likely staying power of Mr Farage's party - still seen by many as mainly a
receptacle for protest votes - is underlined by 52 per cent of all voters
believing it is "here to stay" while 24 per cent say it will be largely
forgotten about by the time of the next election in May 2015.

Voters as a whole see Mr Cameron as a better party leader than Mr Farage - by 33
per cent to 29 per cent - but again the pattern is reversed among
Conservative-Ukip switchers, 37 per cent of whom prefer the Ukip leader with 32
per cent choosing the Prime Minister.

Mr Johnson is the numberone choice among all voters when asked who would make
the best Tory leader now. Some 28 per cent choose the London mayor, with 23 per
cent choosing Mr Cameron and 11 per cent naming Mrs May. The Home Secretary is a
long way ahead of two other contenders - Michael Gove, the Education Secretary,
(two per cent) and George Osborne, the Chancellor (also two per cent). Just one
per cent of definite Tory voters back Mr Osborne, once seen as Mr Cameron's heir
apparent.

Among Conservative-Ukip switchers, Mr Johnson leads on 30 per cent with Mrs May
(21 per cent) just five points behind the Prime Minister who is on 26 per cent.

Richard Drax, the Conservative MP for South Dorset, said: "The Eastleigh
by-election showed that all main parties are not dealing with the issues that
people want us to: uncontrolled immigration and the EU.

"Ukip are significant and the fact they did so well at the Eastleigh by-election
proves it. They are touching on a number of people's raw nerves. We as a party
are not answering peoples' concerns effectively."

ICM Research interviewed an online sample of 1,990 adults aged 18-plus on March
13-15 2013. Data has been weighted to reflect the profile of the GB population.
ICM is a member of the British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Cameron playing rugby with children in east London yesterday
Nigel Farage is rated as the better party leader by 'switchers'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 10, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU referendum;
TO THE EDITOR: FUTURE OF THE TORY PARTY SPECIAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 153 words


SIR - Our Prime Minister keeps telling us of his intentions to repatriate powers
from Brussels. Yet it seems he is prepared to sacrifice the support of thousands
of his activists and voters and see the membership of his party dwindle rather
than admit to having to obey a little-known directive from the Council of Europe
requiring legislation on gay marriage by June.

Is Mr Cameron so sucked into the EU whirlpool that he would rather risk losing
the 2015 election than admit to following this order? If Labour does win, he
knows our membership of the EU is safe without a referendum.

But if he wins he knows that by treaty he cannot repatriate powers from
Brussels. So a manifesto promise of an in/out referendum on a "reformed EU" is
impossible.

This will be the second promise of a referendum he knows he will not have to
fulfil. Can you really "fool all of the people all of the time"?

David Taylor Everton, Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 10, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shot across the bows from Tory leadership rebels

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1001 words


UP TO 25 Conservative MPs are planning to oust David Cameron if the party's
fortunes do not improve within the next two months.

The hardcore group of backbenchers say that if this month's Budget or the local
elections in May prove disastrous they will push for the 46 names needed to
trigger a leadership contest.

Details of discontent in the Prime Minister's party follow days of rumours that
several senior Tories, including Theresa May, are already plotting to succeed
their leader.

One Conservative Tory MP said that he was approached as recently as Friday
afternoon by a fellow MP asking if he would support the Home Secretary's
leadership bid.

After conversations with more than 20 MPs in a febrile Westminster last week,
this newspaper has established that dozens more backbenchers are piling pressure
on Mr Cameron to toughen his stance on an EU referendum. More than 50 Tory MPs
are pressing the Prime Minister to set out precise referendum plans to
"neutralise Ukip" and "rebuild trust" with voters.

Polling data published this weekend by Lord Ashcroft, a former deputy chairman
of the Conservative Party, threatens to fuel discontent among Mr Cameron's
critics. The survey of voters in key battlegrounds suggests Labour is on course
to win the 2015 general election with a majority of 84.

The 25 MPs most determined to oust Mr Cameron say that he is failing to cut
spending or reduce taxes to help boost the economy. They also feel that Liberal
Democrats are being given far too much clout in government.

One of the rebel group, dismissed as "the usual nutters" by many of their fellow
MPs, said: "If either the Budget or the local elections in May prove a disaster
for us then this could be it for both Osborne and Cameron.

"George is deeply unpopular, but we realise that we cannot win in 2015 without a
change of leader. If the elections are a disaster others will realise this too."

Many Conservative MPs have grown pessimistic about the chances of securing a
majority in 2015. One said: "If the election is lost, Cameron will have to
resign. That's only two years away and so it's hardly surprising that people are
starting to look at themselves in the mirror and begin to position themselves."

Last night, Mrs May, the most senior Tory said to be lining up to take over, set
out her "Vision of Conservatism". The keynote speech, delivered in London,
included policies that would appeal to the Left and Right of the party.

In it Mrs May said the Tories should focus on the pillars of "security, freedom
and opportunity" and added: "Today's event is all about a choice of leadership -
between David Cameron and Ed Miliband."

She said a future Conservative government should scrap the Human Rights Act and
consider withdrawing from the European Convention on Human Rights, which has
undermined Britain's power to deport terror suspects.

She added that Britain needed to be a "strong, small and strategic" state.

It is understood that Mrs May has no plans to challenge Mr Cameron until after
the election, but her allies are paving the way for her.

One seniorTory source said: "Theresa [May] is very ambitious and she does have
quite a difficult relationship with the Prime Minister. She is holding regular
meetings with backbenchers and building a more personable, public pro-file.
Everything she does looks very planned."

Last week's speculation of Philip Hammond standing alongside Mrs May has been
dismissed as "complete nonsense" by sources close to the Defence Secretary.

Supporters of Adam Afriyie, the Windsor MP whose leadership ambitions drew
derision from some of his colleagues this year, said their campaign was quietly
gathering momentum.

"People who dismissed Adam aren't doing so now," one friend claimed.

Jesse Norman, who serves on the Commons' Treasury select committee, is also
regarded as a future leader and is said to be securing a powerful base of
support.

Mr Norman led a group of Tory backbenchers nicknamed "the Sensibles" who last
year wrecked the Coalition's plans to reform the House of Lords. "Jesse has kept
his 'Sensibles' together and is winning new friends," another Tory MP said.

To add to the intrigue, Liam Fox, who stood against Mr Cameron in the 2005
leadership contest, will deliver a speech in Westminster tomorrow headed "The
right approach for the economy".

Dr Fox has urged the Coalition to go further in cutting taxes and public
spending. His speech comes nine days before the Chancellor delivers the Budget
on March 20.

The most pressing test of Mr Cameron's authority comes from a large group of
backbenchers urging their leader to harden his line on an EU referendum. The
group wants Mr Cameron to publish draft legislation setting out precisely what
the referendum would ask, when it would take place and how Britain would
extricate itself from the EU.

Six weeks ago the Prime Minister said that if the Conservatives won the 2015
election, ministers would renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU and ask
the public if they wanted to remain part of it by 2017.

One MP involved in the campaign said it had gathered pace since the Tories were
beaten into third place by Ukip at last month's Eastleigh by-election. The group
has begun sending emails and letters to the Prime Minister and is drafting
legislation that it wants him to publish.

"This is not a plot ... This is a determined, behind-thescenes campaign to get
the Prime Minister to go one step further than he has so far," the MP said.

Lord Ashcroft's polling of more than 19,000 voters found that the Conservatives
are likely to win 16 of the 109 seats that will be most fiercely contested
between Labour and the Tories. This would give Mr Miliband's party 367 seats in
the House of Commons, a Labour majority of 84.

Matthew d'Ancona and Janet Daley: Page 26

70 % 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Q. What are your expectations for the next election?
Expect Tories to remain in power Expect a Tory majority Source: ConservativeHome
survey of party members Mar 2012 May 2012 Dec 2012 NOW THE DECLINING CONFIDENCE
OF TORY MEMBERS

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa May, who set out a 'Vision of Conservatism' yesterday, is a
potential candidate for leader
GEOFF PUSH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 10, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A nemesis that never comes

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 250 words


Almost wherever we look at the words and actions of our Coalition ministers, as
my colleague Richard North observes on his EU Referendum blog, it is as if we
see "dead men walking". For all the acres of newsprint devoted to the downfall
of Chris Huhne, it may one day seem that his greatest crime was his plan to
cover Britain's countryside and seas with 32,000 hugely expensive and useless
windmills. Yet this criminally absurd policy continues under his successor, Ed
Davey, just as if Huhne were still in office.

Faced with near-universal calls for the sacking of Sir David Nicholson, under
whose watch 1,200 people died in the squalid chaos of Stafford Hospital, David
Cameron's only response is to say that this caricature of a bureaucrat must be
allowed to continue in post just as if nothing had happened.

No sooner has Mr Cameron proclaimed that "there is no magic money tree" than,
the next day, he announces from Downing Street that we are to give a £10 million
aid package to Afghanistan's ministry of mines, to assist it, inter alia, in
negotiating a $3 billion contract with the Chinese to exploit one of the world's
largest copper reserves. This, it is estimated, will give its Chinese developers
an income of half-a-billion dollars a year, not to mention the $30 million
allegedly slipped to the mines minister for awarding them the contract. So our
poor country floats on from one crazy disaster to the next, just as if nemesis
will never come (except, of course, in the case of Huhne).

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 10, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Is David Cameron deceiving himself over the Eastleigh by-election defeat?;
TO THE EDITOR: FUTURE OF THE TORY PARTY SPECIAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 553 words


SIR - From his article last week (Comment, March 3) it is apparent that David
Cameron is deluding himself.

He attributes his party's poor showing at Eastleigh to Conservative voters'
impatience over the slow pace of change undertaken by the Coalition Government.

It is not the pace of change, but its direction which many traditional
Conservative voters find so disconcerting. The Prime Minister's misguided
response to the election result is as depressing as the result itself.

Peter Youngs Tamworth, Staffordshire

SIR - I noted David Cameron's now-familiar "no turning" rhetoric in his article
last week (Comment, March 3).

How right you are in your editorial when you say that he has failed to connect
with his party's base. I do not find anything admirable about Mr Cameron. As a
former Conservative supporter, he has completely lost my confidence.

Mr Cameron has his own agenda, and is prepared to follow it to the bitter end,
not caring what the grassroots of his party think. This was confirmed yet again
with his answer to the humiliating defeat at the Eastleigh by-election, where
droves of his former supporters voted for Ukip.

If the Conservatives want to have any chance in the next election, they should
immediately remove Mr Cameron as leader, remove gay marriage from their agenda
and hold a referendum on Europe now.

Stephen Purser Muir of Ord, Ross-shire

SIR - If David Cameron wishes to win the next election, he needs to spend more
time being Prime Minister and less time worrying about being leader of his
party.

Prime ministers govern for all the electorate. Great ones lead with a spine and
spirit that rises above party politics and niche political agendas. Bickering
across the Dispatch Box that it was all the fault of the previous government
belittles his leadership.

Nicholas Crean Littledown, Hampshire

SIR - Let's have a Conservative party that carries out conservative policies
now, like economic freedom and self-sufficiency, military spending, low taxes,
immigration restrictions, traditional family values and religion in schools.
Finally, get us out of the EU.

George Sullivan Cubbington, Warwickshire

SIR - The writing was on the wall at Eastleigh, but David Cameron says he won't
lurch. You don't lurch if you don't want to. The nation's up for lurching.

Martin Burgess Beckenham, Kent

SIR - If David Cameron wants to rely on my loyalty in 2015 he does not need to
move his party Right or Left. He needs to ensure that his government departments
limit themselves to announcing measures that they intend to carry out.

I have lost count of the number of times that Conservative ministers have
announced new policies which have subsequently been quietly abandoned. The most
recent example is the increase in the motorway speed limit to 80mph.

Jonathan Robson Milborne Port, Somerset

SIR - Last week David Cameron said, "I want people to be able to look back at
this government and see that we paid down our debts." It seems that we are in
bigger trouble than I thought.

Mr Cameron must know that while we have a budget deficit, even if it is reducing
marginally, we are increasing our national debt. The deficit this year is likely
to be in the order of £168 billion. This amount will be added to the nation's
existing debt.

Please do not try to persuade me that this is a reduction.

Ken Rimmer Chelmsford, Essex

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: One man and his dog? A Ukip campaigner in the Eastleigh by-election
makes himself heard above Conservative placard-bearers
JULIAN SIMMONDS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 10, 2013
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Shot across the bows from Tory leadership rebels

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 965 words


UP TO 25 Conservative MPs are planning to oust David Cameron if the party's
fortunes do not improve within the next two months.

The hardcore group of backbenchers say that if this month's Budget or the local
elections in May prove disastrous they will push for the 46 names needed to
trigger a leadership contest.

Details of discontent in the Prime Minister's party follow days of rumours that
several senior Tories, including Theresa May, are already plotting to succeed
their leader. One Conservative Tory MP said that he was approached as recently
as Friday afternoon by a fellow MP asking if he would support the Home
Secretary's leadership bid.

After conversations with more than 20 MPs in a febrile Westminster last week,
this newspaper has established that dozens more backbenchers are piling pressure
on Mr Cameron to toughen his stance on an EU referendum. More than 50 Tory MPs
are pressing the Prime Minister to set out precise referendum plans to
"neutralise Ukip" and "rebuild trust" with voters.

Polling data published this weekend by Lord Ashcroft, a former deputy chairman
of the Conservative Party, threatens to fuel discontent among Mr Cameron's
critics. The survey of voters in key battlegrounds suggests Labour is on course
to win the 2015 general election with a majority of 84.

Meanwhile, a poll by the Observer last night found Ukip with 17 per cent
support, more than double the Lib Dems' 8 per cent rating, while the
Conservatives were down 2 per cent on 27 per cent, and Labour down 2 per cent on
39 per cent.

The 25 MPs most determined to oust Mr Cameron say that he is failing to cut
spending or reduce taxes to help boost the economy. They also feel that Liberal
Democrats are being given far too much clout.

One of the rebel group, dismissed as "the usual nutters" by many of their fellow
MPs, said: "If either the Budget or the local elections in May prove a disaster
for us then this could be it for both Osborne and Cameron.

"George is deeply unpopular, but we realise that we cannot win in 2015 without a
change of leader."

Many Conservative MPs have grown pessimistic about the chances of securing a
majority in 2015. One said: "If the election is lost, Cameron will have to
resign. That's only two years away and so it's hardly surprising that people are
starting to look at themselves in the mirror and begin to position themselves."

Last night, Mrs May, the most senior Tory said to be lining up to take over, set
out her "Vision of Conservatism". The keynote speech, delivered in London,
included policies that would appeal to the Left and Right of the party.

In it Mrs May said the Tories should focus on the pillars of "security, freedom
and opportunity" and added: "Today's event is all about a choice of leadership -
between David Cameron and Ed Miliband."

She said a future Conservative government should scrap the Human Rights Act and
consider withdrawing from the European Convention on Human Rights, which has
undermined Britain's power to deport terror suspects.

She added that Britain needs to have a "strong, small and strategic" state.

It is understood that Mrs May has no plans to challenge Mr Cameron until after
the election, but her allies are paving the way for her.

One seniorTory source said: "Theresa [May] is very ambitious and she does have
quite a difficult relationship with the Prime Minister. She is holding regular
meetings with backbenchers and building a more personable, public pro-file.
Everything she does looks very planned."

Last week's speculation of Philip Hammond standing alongside Mrs May has been
dismissed as "complete nonsense" by sources close to the Defence Secretary.

Supporters of Adam Afriyie, the Windsor MP whose leadership ambitions drew
derision from some of his colleagues, said their campaign was quietly gathering
momentum. Jesse Norman, who serves on the Commons' Treasury select committee, is
also said to be securing a powerful base of support. Mr Norman led a group of
Tory backbenchers nicknamed "the Sensibles" who last year wrecked the
Coalition's plans to reform the House of Lords.

To add to the intrigue, Liam Fox, who stood against Mr Cameron in the 2005
leadership contest, will deliver a speech in Westminster tomorrow headed "The
right approach for the economy".

In an article for a national newspaper today the former Cabinet minister rails
against the British tax system. He writes: "We pay tax on our income. Then if we
save we pay tax again. If we invest business or property and try to move our
money, we will be hit by capital gains tax or stamp duty. Finally, if we have
the audacity to die, we get the indignity of inheritance tax."

The most pressing test of Mr Cameron's authority comes from a large group of
backbenchers urging him to harden his line on an EU referendum.

The group wants Mr Cameron to publish draft legislation setting out precisely
what the referendum would ask, when it would take place and how Britain would
extricate itself from the EU.

The Prime Minister has said if his party wins the 2015 election, ministers would
renegotiate the relationship with the EU and then ask the public if they wanted
to stay part of it.

One MP in the campaign said it had gathered pace since the Tories were beaten
into third place by Ukip at last month's Eastleigh by-election. The group has
begun drafting legislation that it wants him to publish. "This is not a plot ...
This is a determined, behindthe-scenes campaign to get the Prime Minister to go
one step further than he has so far," the MP said.

Lord Ashcroft's polling of more than 19,000 voters found that the Tories are
likely to win 16 of the 109 seats that will be most fiercely contested between
Labour and the Tories. This would give Labour 367 seats in the Commons, a Labour
majority of 84.

Matthew d'Ancona and Janet Daley: Page 26

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theresa May, who set out a 'Vision of Conservatism' yesterday, is a
potential candidate for leader
GEOFF PUSH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 3, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How our EU neighbours reaped £16bn reward for backing historic budget cut

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 790 words


THE FULL extent of £16billion in "sweeteners" paid to European Union member
states to secure their support for last month's decision to make a historic cut
in the union's budget can be disclosed for the first time today.

David Cameron said Britain could be "proud" after latenight talks set total
payments to the EU for 2014-20 at £770 billion, down from £800 billion for the
previous seven-year round.

It was the first time the EU's multi-year budget had fallen - and the deal also
protected Britain's annual £3.6billion rebate, first negotiated by Margaret
Thatcher in the Eighties.

However, included in the deal were a series of "additional payments" to
individual countries, which helped to persuade them to sign up to the overall
package.

Many involved payments to wealthier nations under the controversial Common
Agricultural Policy - as well as using the EU's much-criticised structural funds
regime, which funds projects designed to reduce the gap between rich and poor
regions.

A European Parliament document seen by The Sunday Telegraph spells out for the
first time which countries got what. Twenty-five out of the 27 EU member states
were listed as receiving "additional payments" - the exceptions being Britain,
which only got its existing rebate, and Poland.

Critics last night said the document laid bare a "ridiculous" system of
"horse-trading and special pleading", which resulted in an "economically
irrational and ineffective EU budget". The result could be to hamper growth
across Europe rather than boosting it, the critics added.

The document showed that according to the "additional payments", France was
awarded (EURO)200 million (£173million) for Mayotte, an island off the east
coast of Africa that recently became an overseas French department. Mayotte has
a population of 204,000 - meaning each resident is effectively getting (EURO)980
(£850) directly from EU taxpayers.

France is also getting an extra (EURO)1billion (£870million) for "rural
development". In addition, Portugal has been awarded an extra (EURO)1billion
from structural funds.

Of that, (EURO)150 million (£130million) is earmarked for Madeira - an island
with a notorious record in abusing EU cash on "white elephant" projects in the
past, including (EURO)3.5million (£3million) on a marina built in 2005 but now
abandoned, which was identi-fied in a Sunday Telegraph investigation last year.

Spain has received an extra (EURO)2.3 billion (£2 billion) - much of it to be
spent on infrastructure, despite the bursting of the construction bubble being
identified as one of the main problems facing Spain's crisis-hit economy.

Belgium received an extra (EURO)133 million (£115 million) from structural funds
to boost the regions of Limburg and Wallonia - which have gross domestic
products of 96.1 per cent and 84.7 per cent of the EU average respectively.

Luxembourg has been awarded (EURO)20 million (£17.34 million) for rural
development, despite the fact that it is the wealthiest EU member state and
agriculture only accounts for 0.3 per cent of its economy - the lowest
proportion in the entire union.

And Italy has received an extra (EURO)3billion (£2.6billion) - half from
structural funds and half for rural development.

Pawel Swidlicki, a research analyst at the Open Europe think tank, said: "David
Cameron deserves credit for mustering an alliance in favour of an EU budget cut.

"However, these examples illustrate the ridiculous extent of horse-trading and
special pleading on the part of many member states, which results in an
economically irrational and ineffective EU budget.

"In particular, using the structural funds as a form of deal-sweetener results
in widespread misallocations of scarce public funds coupled with massive
opportunity costs. Arguably, the net effect is to hamper growth rather than to
boost it."

The Prime Minister won allies at last month's Brussels summit to win an overall
package of £30billion cuts - including a £1.7billion administrative costs
reduction that will reduce the pay and perks of the EU's 55,000-strong civil
service.

Britain will pay around £500 million a year less under the deal than it would
have done under a draft agreement proposed last year. Mr Cameron worked closely
with the leaders of the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden, as well as Angela
Merkel, the German chancellor.

It was the first major EU summit since his pledge of an "in/out" referendum on
Britain's membership of the EU.

He faced down François Hollande, the French president, who called for cuts in
the British rebate as well as originally backing a proposal for the overall
budget to be £830billion - in order to preserve farm subsidies paid through the
Common Agricultural Policy.

'The net effect is to hamper growth rather than boost it'

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Several member states and areas benefited from the payments, but
critics argued that such 'horse-trading and special pleading' resulted in an
'economically irrational and ineffective' EU budget overall
ALAMY: SIMEONE HUBER/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 3, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The clowns in charge of Europe's biggest basket case;
COMMENTARY

BYLINE: TOBIAS JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1288 words


THERE IS an old saying that in most countries the political situation is
serious, but not desperate; whereas in Italy it's desperate, but not serious.

Now that a comedian, Beppe Grillo, has won more votes than any other politician,
the saying is more apt than ever. The country is in crisis and a joker is the
only person who can stop it becoming a laughing stock.

Italy has always been, politically, a bit of a basket case. The country has been
the cradle of more political innovations than any other: from the Signoria (with
the Medici and Visconti) to Futurism (Marinetti), Fascism (Mussolini),
Euro-Communism (Togliatti) and media mogulism (Berlusconi). Italians have always
been, for better or worse, political innovators. In a way, it's no surprise that
the country has now invented Bloggerism, giving more than 25 per cent of its
votes to a blogging satirist.

The extraordinary innovation of last week's election was that it turned
political logic on its head. In a country where Silvio Berlusconi has a massive
media arsenal at his disposal, it's always been assumed that to win an election
you need to go on television as much as he does. But Grillo refused to do so,
preferring instead to tour the peninsula in a camper van, swim the Straits of
Messina, and use the internet as an electronic balcony.

If people are now talking about the "Italian Spring", it's because Citizen Kane
appears to have been usurped by a witty nerd who looks like Snow White's chipper
friend.

The result would have been inconceivable without the Italian economy being
stagnant for a decade. By next year, the country's economy will have contracted
by a tenth from its peak. Youth unemployment is at a staggering 37 per cent.

Last year, disposable income fell by 4 per cent. The country is in a depression,
and with the previous prime minister Mario Monti, appearing to deepen that
depression through the increase and introduction of taxes, the time was ripe for
revolution.

The results also show something about the way Italians like their politicians.
For two decades foreigners have been wondering what on earth they saw in
Berlusconi. The answer is that they like a charismatic, red-blooded kind of guy.
Against a backdrop of verbose, patrician MPs, Berlusconi seemed like a man of
the people.

Though politically his opposite, Grillo has the same appeal: he gets angry, he
swears, he jokes. The way he harangues the piazza, and whips the crowd up into a
kind of enraged hysteria, is not so different to one of his less savoury
predecessors.

In many ways, though, he is the inheritor of a strange political movement which
began in 1944 called Qualunquismo: it aimed to do away completely with political
parties by appealing to the ordinary man, the "uomo qualunque". Given the
ubiquity of organised crime and corruption, there appears, in every generation,
a ground-level qualunquismo that promises to sweep away the political "crooks".

Grillo has relentlessly campaigned for a "clean parliament", purged of those
with criminal records. The irony is that, having a manslaughter conviction for
killing three passengers in a car in 1981, Grillo has said that he himself won't
take up a seat in parliament.

Usually, what happens to the qualunquismo movements is that the new broom gets
stuck in the "marmellatona" - the "massive jam" - of Italian politics, and the
broom gets dirty rather than parliament clean. It's hard to remember, but
Berlusconi and Umberto Bossi, the disgraced former leader of the Northern
League, were supposed to do away with the "thieves" in Rome. They ended up at
the centre of a political cabal that was accused of corruption.

Each time the newcomer disappoints expectations, the anger and yearning for a
new party is increased. The result is every successful political party has to
present itself as the outsider. That happens in most countries, but only in
Italy do politicians re-invent their parties and coalitions so regularly, often
presenting themselves as the enemies of the machinery of state.

In Italy the state is portrayed as the problem and, consequently, the country
has precious few statesmen ("a statesman," said Alicide De Gaspari, one of the
Republic's founding fathers, "thinks not about the next election, but about the
next generation").

The election also reflects the fact that the Italians are instinctively
anarchic. Grillo has learnt from Umberto Bossi that Italians warm to a leader
who turns the air blue and regularly performs the "umbrella gesture" (smashing a
palm into the inside of the elbow). The fact that Grillo claims not to be a
leader at all, but merely a facilitator, endears him to the idealistic outlaws
in his ranks.

That anarchism was especially apparent with regard to Europe. The more German
politicians and European bureaucrats urged Italians to swallow the medicine of
austerity offered by Mario Monti - nicknamed "Rigor Montis" by Grillo - the more
Italians became determined to resist foreign interference.

The reason 55 per cent of Italians voted for either Grillo or Berlusconi, dubbed
the two "clowns" by last week's Economist, was that they don't like being told
what to do by Berlin or Brussels.

There is, as they say, history here. The last time Italy had a technocratic
government, under Carlo Azeglio Ciampi in the early 1990s, acute austerity was
introduced to squeeze it inside the economic requirements for joining the single
currency.

That austerity was sold with the line that, once inside, it would all be milk
and honey. There has been an economic slump ever since. And now, for the last
year, Italians have once again endured austerity introduced by an unelected
technocrat who they perceive is controlled from abroad.

So there is now a tangible feeling that Italy, more than Greece, represents a
threat to the stability and unity of the European Union.

Both Berlusconi and Grillo were explicitly critical of Europe throughout the
campaign: Grillo has urged a referendum on whether Italy should leave the euro,
and has spoken of the need to restructure Italy's (EURO)1.9billion debt. Both
have battered Monti for his fidelity to foreign masters.

No government is possible without bringing at least one of those "clowns" into
coalition. And once that happens it seems likely they would begin a game of
highstakes poker with Brussels. Both sides think they have strong bargaining
positions. Italy has to raise (EURO)420billion this year, and so is acutely
vulnerable to perceptions that it's not a reliable debtor.

If the European Central Bank decides to stop propping up the Italian bond
market, the cost of borrowing will soar far beyond sustainable levels. But, as
Grillo and Berlusconi know, Italy also has some aces up its sleeve.

They believe that the Italian economy is strong enough to go it alone, that a
devaluation and return to the lira would make the country competitive once more.
Although it's often said that the Italian economy is weak, there's actually
(EURO)9 trillion of private wealth. Economic experts, including Ambrose
Evans-Pritchard in the pages of The Daily Telegraph, have suggested an Italian
exit from the euro is conceivable, even coherent. Only yesterday, Grillo
insisted that "if conditions do not change", Italy "will want" to leave the
euro. What is certain is that there's a power vacuum in Italy. Not only is there
no Pope, there's no government and the current head of state, Giorgio
Napolitano, steps down next month.

The great screen writer Ennio Flaiano once quipped: "Italy is the country where
the shortest line between two points is an arabesque". Before Italy gets some
new leaders, there's a lot of dancing to be done.

Tobias Jones's book about the Italian deep south, Blood on the Altar, has just
been published by Faber in paperback.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Berlusconi and his 27-year-old girlfriend Francesca Pascale

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 3, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The clowns in charge of Europe's biggest basket case;
COMMENTARY

BYLINE: TOBIAS JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1288 words


THERE IS an old saying that in most countries the political situation is
serious, but not desperate; whereas in Italy it's desperate, but not serious.

Now that a comedian, Beppe Grillo, has won more votes than any other politician,
the saying is more apt than ever. The country is in crisis and a joker is the
only person who can stop it becoming a laughing stock.

Italy has always been, politically, a bit of a basket case. The country has been
the cradle of more political innovations than any other: from the Signoria (with
the Medici and Visconti) to Futurism (Marinetti), Fascism (Mussolini),
Euro-Communism (Togliatti) and media mogulism (Berlusconi). Italians have always
been, for better or worse, political innovators. In a way, it's no surprise that
the country has now invented Bloggerism, giving more than 25 per cent of its
votes to a blogging satirist.

The extraordinary innovation of last week's election was that it turned
political logic on its head. In a country where Silvio Berlusconi has a massive
media arsenal at his disposal, it's always been assumed that to win an election
you need to go on television as much as he does. But Grillo refused to do so,
preferring instead to tour the peninsula in a camper van, swim the Straits of
Messina, and use the internet as an electronic balcony.

If people are now talking about the "Italian Spring", it's because Citizen Kane
appears to have been usurped by a witty nerd who looks like Snow White's chipper
friend.

The result would have been inconceivable without the Italian economy being
stagnant for a decade. By next year, the country's economy will have contracted
by a tenth from its peak. Youth unemployment is at a staggering 37 per cent.

Last year, disposable income fell by 4 per cent. The country is in a depression,
and with the previous prime minister Mario Monti, appearing to deepen that
depression through the increase and introduction of taxes, the time was ripe for
revolution.

The results also show something about the way Italians like their politicians.
For two decades foreigners have been wondering what on earth they saw in
Berlusconi. The answer is that they like a charismatic, red-blooded kind of guy.
Against a backdrop of verbose, patrician MPs, Berlusconi seemed like a man of
the people.

Though politically his opposite, Grillo has the same appeal: he gets angry, he
swears, he jokes. The way he harangues the piazza, and whips the crowd up into a
kind of enraged hysteria, is not so different to one of his less savoury
predecessors.

In many ways, though, he is the inheritor of a strange political movement which
began in 1944 called Qualunquismo: it aimed to do away completely with political
parties by appealing to the ordinary man, the "uomo qualunque". Given the
ubiquity of organised crime and corruption, there appears, in every generation,
a ground-level qualunquismo that promises to sweep away the political "crooks".

Grillo has relentlessly campaigned for a "clean parliament", purged of those
with criminal records. The irony is that, having a manslaughter conviction for
killing three passengers in a car in 1981, Grillo has said that he himself won't
take up a seat in parliament.

Usually, what happens to the qualunquismo movements is that the new broom gets
stuck in the "marmellatona" - the "massive jam" - of Italian politics, and the
broom gets dirty rather than parliament clean. It's hard to remember, but
Berlusconi and Umberto Bossi, the disgraced former leader of the Northern
League, were supposed to do away with the "thieves" in Rome. They ended up at
the centre of a political cabal that was accused of corruption.

Each time the newcomer disappoints expectations, the anger and yearning for a
new party is increased. The result is every successful political party has to
present itself as the outsider. That happens in most countries, but only in
Italy do politicians re-invent their parties and coalitions so regularly, often
presenting themselves as the enemies of the machinery of state.

In Italy the state is portrayed as the problem and, consequently, the country
has precious few statesmen ("a statesman," said Alicide De Gaspari, one of the
Republic's founding fathers, "thinks not about the next election, but about the
next generation").

The election also reflects the fact that the Italians are instinctively
anarchic. Grillo has learnt from Umberto Bossi that Italians warm to a leader
who turns the air blue and regularly performs the "umbrella gesture" (smashing a
palm into the inside of the elbow). The fact that Grillo claims not to be a
leader at all, but merely a facilitator, endears him to the idealistic outlaws
in his ranks.

That anarchism was especially apparent with regard to Europe. The more German
politicians and European bureaucrats urged Italians to swallow the medicine of
austerity offered by Mario Monti - nicknamed "Rigor Montis" by Grillo - the more
Italians became determined to resist foreign interference.

The reason 55 per cent of Italians voted for either Grillo or Berlusconi, dubbed
the two "clowns" by last week's Economist, was that they don't like being told
what to do by Berlin or Brussels.

There is, as they say, history here. The last time Italy had a technocratic
government, under Carlo Azeglio Ciampi in the early 1990s, acute austerity was
introduced to squeeze it inside the economic requirements for joining the single
currency.

That austerity was sold with the line that, once inside, it would all be milk
and honey. There has been an economic slump ever since. And now, for the last
year, Italians have once again endured austerity introduced by an unelected
technocrat who they perceive is controlled from abroad.

So there is now a tangible feeling that Italy, more than Greece, represents a
threat to the stability and unity of the European Union.

Both Berlusconi and Grillo were explicitly critical of Europe throughout the
campaign: Grillo has urged a referendum on whether Italy should leave the euro,
and has spoken of the need to restructure Italy's (EURO)2trillion debt. Both
have battered Monti for his fidelity to foreign masters.

No government is possible without bringing at least one of those "clowns" into
coalition. And once that happens it seems likely they would begin a game of
highstakes poker with Brussels. Both sides think they have strong bargaining
positions. Italy has to raise (EURO)420billion this year, and so is acutely
vulnerable to perceptions that it's not a reliable debtor.

If the European Central Bank decides to stop propping up the Italian bond
market, the cost of borrowing will soar far beyond sustainable levels. But, as
Grillo and Berlusconi know, Italy also has some aces up its sleeve.

They believe that the Italian economy is strong enough to go it alone, that a
devaluation and return to the lira would make the country competitive once more.
Although it's often said that the Italian economy is weak, there's actually
(EURO)9 trillion of private wealth. Economic experts, including Ambrose
Evans-Pritchard in the pages of The Daily Telegraph, have suggested an Italian
exit from the euro is conceivable, even coherent. Only yesterday, Grillo
insisted that "if conditions do not change", Italy "will want" to leave the
euro. What is certain is that there's a power vacuum in Italy. Not only is there
no Pope, there's no government and the current head of state, Giorgio
Napolitano, steps down next month.

The great screen writer Ennio Flaiano once quipped: "Italy is the country where
the shortest line between two points is an arabesque". Before Italy gets some
new leaders, there's a lot of dancing to be done.

Tobias Jones's book about the Italian deep south, Blood on the Altar, has just
been published by Faber in paperback.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Berlusconi and his 27-year-old girlfriend Francesca Pascale

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 24, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

An EU referendum is neccessary in 2014;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 124 words


SIR - The Prime Minister has promised a referendum by the end of 2017 on
Britain's continued membership of the European Union. There is a sign in my
local pub which says "Free Beer Tomorrow!"

If David Cameron wishes to avoid defeat at the next general election and handing
power to a Labour/Lib Dem coalition, he should hold a simple, straightforward
inout referendum in 2014. Any notion of repatriating powers is to misunderstand
the raison d'être of the European Union and is simply wishful thinking. Damian
Dobson Helions Bumpstead, Essex

SIR - As long as we remain in the EU, we are fighting a losing battle. Not only
is homosexual marriage an EU requirement, but so also are HS2 and the
dismantling of the NHS.

John Strange Worthing, West Sussex

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 17, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FRIENDS;
The One With Dave's Microwave, by Harry Mount

BYLINE: Harry Mount

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 483 words


"Spot of lunch, George?" said Dave, rootling through the freezer compartment of
the Smeg Premiercool fridge in the Downing Street flat.

"You bet!" said George, rubbing his hands together. It had been a long morning,
drafting one speech attacking Ed's 10p tax and another attacking his mansion
tax. The second one was a bit easier - he just dusted down his old speech
attacking Vince's mansion tax. "What has Sam rustled up?"

"Erm, she's been a bit busy," said Dave, digging out a few luridly coloured
boxes, "There's an I Can't Believe It's Not Horse Lasagne... or Bute-free
Bolognese. I'm going for the Vegetarian, Guaranteed Non-Equine Option."

"On second thoughts, I think I'll have lunch in the Treasury - they do a very
nice bread and water deal," said George. "Surely you don't have to keep this
thing up? John Gummer only had to feed his daughter one beefburger, didn't he?
Anyway, everyone knows how much you like horses, thanks to Rebekah..."

Dave's cheeks blushed deep scarlet as he forked the cellophane of his Vegetarian
Option.

"I bet Barack doesn't have to cook his own lunch," he said, as he popped the
plastic dish in the microwave. "Or Angela. And certainly not François - they're
much better about these things in France. Last time I was at the Elysée Palace,
we had some really good fresh horseburgers - none of this frozen stuff. Horse
ice cream is much nicer than you think, too."

"Oh do cheer up, Dave," said George.

"You try cheering up on a solid diet of pork pies, frozen mince and terrible
polls," said Dave. "What more do I have to do? I promise an EU referendum, I cut
our EU bill, Chris Huhne fesses up. And still the polls won't budge."

"There is some good news in the Eastleigh by-election," said George, pulling a
sheaf of papers out of his pocket. "The pollsters are pretty sure Tory numbers
are going to go up."

"Because I did the rounds with Maria Hutchings last week?" "I'm sure that must
have helped - a bit," said George, avoiding Dave's hopeful gaze. "It seems the
swing voters in Eastleigh are more excited by next week, when, er, Boris is
visiting."

Dave shouted something but George didn't quite catch it, muffled as it was by
the pinging of the microwave.

"Why do voters in Hampshire care about a minor local politician in London?" said
Dave, gloomily decanting the steaming vegetarian mush on to a plate.

"Well, it seems that his attitudes to foxes go down very well with rural
voters," said George, studying the polling results.

"They loved it when he suggested a fox cull."

"So they like it when a townie wants to get someone else to shoot foxes," said
Dave, spearing a bright green, broccoli floret. "But if a rural son of the soil
- like, say, me - actually gets on a horse and personally hunts down a fox, they
hate it?"

"That's about the size of it," said George.

"It's all so unfair," said Dave, pushing his plate aside. All of a sudden, he'd
entirely lost his appetite.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 10, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

What's so wrong with a thoroughly modern leader:?;
If the Tories decide to stick with Cameron, they need to get real about the
electoral consequences of continued disunity

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1158 words


This summer's must-read for Tory MPs - indeed, for anyone interested in politics
and history - is the superb forthcoming biography of Edmund Burke by Jesse
Norman, the Tory MP for Hereford and South Herefordshire. Since leading the
rebellion on Lords reform, Norman has even been spoken of as a potential leader
of his party.

He certainly personifies - uncannily so - the tension within the Cameroon
project: one of its brightest rising stars, the author of tracts on the "Big
Society" and "Compassionate Conservatism"; but also, last year, the unexpected
Mr Christian to Cameron's Captain Bligh over the reform of the Upper House. So
it is perhaps appropriate that Norman did not vote on gay marriage last week,
uncertain in this instance how the loyal Tory was obliged to act.

On the final page of his book on Burke, Norman declares that his subject "gives
again the lost language of politics: a language of honour, loyalty, duty and
wisdom, which can never be adequately captured in any spreadsheet or economic
model". In more demotic phrases, this is precisely the message No 10 has been
trying to communicate to the Conservative Party since last week's spectacular
rebellion over the same-sex marriage Bill.

In 18 days, the voters of Eastleigh will decide in a snap by-election whether to
stick with Chris Huhne's party or to punish all Lib Dems by electing a Tory MP.
Inescapably, the contest has become a battle of unwelcome symbolism for the two
Coalition partners. Nick Clegg has to show that his party is not an ex-yellow
bird that would already be pushing up the daisies if it were not nailed to the
Cabinet Office.

For the Prime Minister, meanwhile, Eastleigh is the worst kind of virility test:
his party wants him to dramatise Tory ascendancy in the Coalition, to show that
Lib Dem seats will be vulnerable in 2015, and to prove that his preoccupation
with allegedly "metropolitan" causes such as gay marriage has not distracted him
from the business of winning. Last week's poll by Lord Ashcroft, showing the
Tories three points ahead in the constituency, has only piled on the pressure.

At tomorrow's political Cabinet, the PM is expected to tell his Tory colleagues
that winning is "no small task" and that a campaign of ferocious energy and
unity will be required if the Conservatives are to stand a chance. Two Tory
Cabinet ministers (Owen Paterson and David Jones) voted against gay marriage and
another (Dominic Grieve) stayed away. Cameron agreed to a free vote and so
cannot object to its consequences. But the virus of mutiny is always hard to
contain. The PM's message to the party oligarchs will be: get the movement in
line, or share in defeat. He will not only be referring to Eastleigh.

Since May 2010, Cameron and his team have made many errors, clustered in the
"omnishambles" that followed last year's Budget. The economic recovery is too
slow for political comfort, and the deficit-reduction programme is taking longer
than planned. There have been too many stop-start policies, too many U-turns,
too little of what the PM calls "pitch-rolling": preparing the ground for
change. Often, the Government seems to be less than the sum of its parts.

It is not hard to draw up an inventory of failure. The problem is that drawing
up such lists seems to be all that interests some within the Conservative
movement. When they look at Cameron, they see the leader who failed to win the
last election outright; not the Prime Minister who has held together a Coalition
that is delivering radical education and welfare reform, reducing the deficit
(albeit more slowly than hoped), and has promised the in/out referendum on EU
membership craved by Tory activists for so long.

Last week in Brussels, Cameron helped to deliver a real-terms cut in the EU
budget. The format of these meetings, let alone their content, is insane: in the
round-the-clock negotiation, the PM, I gather, snatched an hour's sleep in a
chair in the UK delegation's room.

This is no way to decide which movie to see, let alone settle the fate of £768
billion. But Cameron's success shows that his robust new position on Britain's
EU membership has not diminished his capacity to forge alliances. If anything,
it has concentrated Continental minds.

The Tory movement may take a while to reconcile itself to samesex marriage
(though not as long as one might think this weekend: gay weddings will seem much
less threatening to those who oppose them in principle now when they see them in
practice later). Meanwhile, you might think that the party was jubilant as it
watched a Conservative PM succeed in Brussels where all his predecessors have
failed. But - from my soundings - there is still more resentment about gay
marriage than celebration about the triumph of Euroscepticism.

Plenty of Tories yearn for Boris Johnson, which is natural, given his talents,
charisma and the global superstardom he obtained during the Olympics. He has the
good fortune to be uncontaminated by coalition, which adds to his lustre.

But - as the Mayor himself would say - caveat emptor. Boris is unmatched as an
energiser. What he is not is a social conservative. As Peter Tatchell, the
gay-rights campaigner, put it in the London Evening Standard last week: "Boris's
backing for same-sex marriage was a game-changer." No less than Cameron, the
Mayor grasps that his party must make peace with modern life, both because it is
the right thing to do, and because all other paths lead to electoral perdition.

All those Tory MPs who now sneer at Cameron's early modernisation of the party
and demand an approach blue-intooth-and-claw might usefully ask whether the
party would have gained 92 seats in the last general election - its greatest
gains since 1931 - if he had not set the trajectory that now continues in the
introduction of same-sex marriage. There is a brutal truth here: a party that is
serious about power cannot surrender policy and strategy formulation to its
membership. The activists should have a voice. But not a veto.

The leadership of a party is a contract, not a one-man show. If the Tories
really do want to be rid of Cameron, they have a mechanism to make that happen:
one that was used in 2003 to depose Iain Duncan Smith. If, on the other hand,
they decide to stick with him, they need to get real about the electoral
consequences of continued disunity.

Ed Miliband's greatest asset and achievement is the discipline that has
prevailed so far in his ranks. Expect some significant interventions from the
Labour leader in the next few weeks. He knows that this is a moment to strike,
pre-empting George Osborne's Budget on March 20.

And who can blame Ed? There is nothing less appealing than a party that lacks
both the guts to get rid of a leader and the discipline to support him. At the
moment, the Tory party reminds me of a busload of blue-rosetted lemmings heading
towards the cliff, but blaming the satnav.

Voters notice these things: in Eastleigh and elsewhere.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 10, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Tories must be radical about the right things

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 907 words


The Prime Minister deserves top marks for his performance in Europe this week.
After a night of coffee-fuelled negotiations, he emerged on Friday morning with
the first deal in history that actually cuts the EU budget.

The achievement of bringing the principle of austerity to Europe is a testament
to David Cameron's philosophy and to his personality. His approach to the EU all
along has been classically Conservative, asserting that it must be light on
regulation and respectful of sovereignty if it is to work in Britain's
interests. His pledge to renegotiate the terms of membership and hold an in/out
referendum should he win the next general election has revived the principle
that the European project requires democratic consent for legitimacy.

Mr Cameron has pursued his agenda with admirable doggedness. He told reporters
that he ''fought'' to keep Britain's rebate safe, that he ''battled off every
attempt to change it in any way''. One senior French official confirmed that Mr
Cameron is ''a real negotiator; very, very tenacious''.

It is a pity, then, that some Conservatives still seem confused about what Mr
Cameron really stands for. A large part of the problem is his campaign for gay
marriage. Last Tuesday, more Tory MPs voted against the same-sex marriage Bill
than for it - and, as our report today shows, it will probably face substantial
opposition in the Lords.

Of course, the Prime Minister's social liberalism is motivated by good
intentions, and gay couples have as much right as anyone else to formalise their
relationships. Most Conservatives also understand that there is a strong
political case for modernisation. The Tory party has to adapt to a more diverse
and tolerant society if it is to reach out to the centre ground and win the next
election.

The fact remains, however, that for many Tories, both in Parliament and in local
associations, gay marriage does not feel like a very Conservative issue. The
Bill certainly was not a priority to most of them and pushing it through has
created a huge amount of ill will, to little purpose.

As Janet Daley suggests in her column on the opposite page, this has left many
Tory MPs feeling deeply frustrated with Mr Cameron: ''It was not the substance
of the Bill that was the chief cause of complaint - it was the almost
unbelievable strategic stupidity of the party leadership for having created an
entirely unnecessary debacle.''

It is also wrong to dismiss all of Mr Cameron's critics as backwardlooking, or,
as Francis Maude rather condescendingly put it on Newsnight, ''a few paces
behind prevailing social attitudes''. Most of them understand the need for
Conservatism to be modernising and reforming. It is true that the Tory ethos is
partly about respect for institutions and traditions, but it has never been
about preserving things for the sake of it. After all, no one was more radical
or more of a challenge to the established order than Margaret Thatcher.

The issue is what should be at the top of the agenda for a Tory prime minister
in a time of economic hardship. Michael Fallon, the business minister,
interviewed in today's newspaper, is an example of a Conservative who voted
against gay marriage but who still has a refreshingly radical outlook. ''I want
the gap between what's compulsory and what's forbidden to be as large as
possible,'' he said.

''That's Conservatism.''

For Mr Fallon's vision to be realised, wholesale reform has to happen, reform of
a variety that can't possibly be called backward-looking.

On the economy, appropriate measures might include accelerating the cut in
corporation tax or abolishing capital gains tax. On public services, the Mid
Staffordshire scandal reflects a desperate need to confront professional
incompetence in the NHS and return to some basic principles of customer care. Dr
Phillip Lee, the Conservative MP for Bracknell and a practising GP, writes in
these pages about the vital necessity of restructuring the NHS, which means,
among other things, consolidating specialist services - an idea that is as
radical as it is controversial.

It is also the Tories who are making the case for fundamental change in
education. Under Michael Gove's watch as Education Secretary, more and more
English schools have become self-governing and will soon have complete control
over teachers' pay. He is also introducing a knowledge-based curriculum that
encourages children to learn hard facts and is revising the performance tables
to give a more accurate picture of pupils' achievements. The proposals are a
blend of educational traditionalism and modernisation - using old-fashioned
methods to increase social mobility.

Given all this potential for worthwhile reform, and all these excellent ideas
that are floating around, it seems a shame that Mr Cameron has chosen to
distract and confuse the Conservatives over the question of gay marriage.

By so doing, he has risked alienating many of his natural supporters and leaving
them adrift without a party. Most of these people are not averse to reform, but
they simply want the Prime Minister to focus on those areas of life that their
everyday experience tells them need attention most desperately: schools,
hospitals, taxes and welfare. If Mr Cameron is radical about the right issues,
he stands a good chance of uniting his party - and improving his country.
Ultimately, that is what all Conservatives want to do.

Schools, hospitals, taxes and welfare are the issues to tackle

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 10, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SO WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO BE A TORY NOW?;
After last week's gay marriage vote split the Tory party, business minister
M8ichael Fallon tells Patrick Hennessy how it can be reunited

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1609 words


For many Conservatives, Michael Fallon cuts a reassuring figure in difficult
times. First elected as an MP in 1983, he has been a minister under Margaret
Thatcher, John Major and now David Cameron.

After the general election of 2010, Mr Cameron made Mr Fallon a Tory deputy
chairman - and for the following two years it seemed he was hardly off the
television as he did his best to defend ministers during the tricky infancy of
the Coalition.

Last September he was made minister of state at the Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills, at least in part to keep an eye on Vince Cable, his
Liberal Democrat boss, who has been labelled the "antibusiness secretary" by
some Tory MPs.

Mr Fallon is firmly on the Tory Right. His particular political skill was once
described by a colleague as being "able to put forward an unashamedly
Thatcherite agenda while looking like your favourite kindly uncle".

Last week was a particularly traumatic one for the Conservative Party. The
Commons vote on same-sex marriage split the Tories down the middle - and
engendered a fresh debate about the party's true identity.

Traditionalists feared - not for the first time - that their values and beliefs
were being ripped up by David Cameron, George Osborne and Tory modernisers who
were pandering to the liberal metropolitan elite. Francis Maude, the Cabinet
Office minister and moderniser-in-chief, did nothing to soothe them when he said
in a television interview: "Sometimes parts of the Conservative Party move, but
they move more slowly, or a few paces behind prevailing social attitudes or the
centre of gravity... which will probably continue to change in ways it's hard to
predict."

Mr Fallon, a 60-year-old father of two, was one of 10 ministers (plus eight
Conservative whips) to vote against same-sex marriage. In an interview with The
Sunday Telegraph in his office three days after the historic debate, he
explains: "I didn't think you could redefine something that is so central as
marriage without much wider consent, not least from those who are married and
prize the status of marriage."

His words support the impression held by many Tories that the Prime Minister
railroaded the plans through in an effort to prove the party had changed,
echoing the battles fought a generation ago by Tony Blair against the Labour
Party. His constituents in Sevenoaks, he says, are "overwhelmingly opposed to
the Bill". However, he hails the fact that it was a "genuine free vote" and
believes critics "would have been much more scornful if we had announced a free
vote, but then 95 per cent of the party followed the Prime Minister's lead...
there are differences of view".

Furthermore, he insists the gaymarriage debate, in the Commons at least, is over
now. Thanks to support from Labour and the Lib Dems, the vote was won with a
large majority. It is time for the party to move on, he says.

What it will be moving on to, however, will not be a clear path to a general
election victory in 2015. The party trails Ed Miliband's Labour by more than 10
points in some polls, and membership is reported to be down by around 100,000
from 2005 (when Mr Cameron became leader), currently standing somewhere between
130,000 and 170,000. Some MPs say their local membership has haemorrhaged over
same-sex marriage.

MPs and activists alike expect battles for the party's soul to rage over the
next few years. Despite Mr Cameron's promise of an in/out referendum on
Britain's membership of the EU, Europe will continue to rear its head as a point
of difference among Tories. Many business leaders are worried about the Tory
Eurosceptic "better off out" rhetoric.

"Part of my job is to reassure business that we want to recommit to the single
market," Mr Fallon says. "But obviously it's long overdue that we get more
refreshed public consent for it. By the time of the [2017] referendum, you will
have to be over 60 to have had a vote on the European issue."

Mr Fallon voted for Britain to stay in the Common Market in the 1975 referendum.
How would he vote today in an in/out referendum? "It's a hypothetical question
because the whole thing is changing in front of our eyes... I'm not sure you can
have a referendum now - you wouldn't know what you were voting on, would you?
We've set out the reforms we want to see, and if we get those reforms I shall
certainly vote 'yes' for a stronger single market."

This month's by-election in Eastleigh, called after last week's decision by
Chris Huhne, the former Lib Dem energy secretary, to step down after pleading
guilty to perverting the course of justice, helps to illustrate the two strands
of Tory thinking. While modernisers have pushed the Michael Fallon wants to mend
the rifts caused by tensions over the EU and the gay-marriage vote, above
same-sex marriage agenda, the party's candidate in Eastleigh, Maria Hutchings,
declares that she would vote for Britain to leave the EU. A Roman Catholic
mother of four, she would also have voted against same-sex marriage, is against
building on green-belt land and proudly declares: "I am not a rich Tory toff."

Such a platform might lead to embarrassment for Mr Cameron and some of the other
Conservative ministers who will join her campaign. Strategists hope, however, it
will do much to see off the threat of Ukip, whose leader, Nigel Farage, while
deciding not to stand himself, was campaigning colourfully in the constituency
yesterday.

Away from Eastleigh, George Osborne's mantra of "austerity" is also giving rise
to concerns in Conservative ranks, with MPs and activists alike pushing for more
to be done to boost growth, while the construction of the HS2 rail link, which
will run through some of the most beautiful parts of the country, will lead to
tensions between local Tories and those at the centre for decades.

Mr Fallon rebuts the charge that Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne are out of touch with
true Conservatives. "David Cameron describes himself as a 'marriage man' and
he's devoted to marriage as an institution. That was his reasoning for wanting
to widen marriage to gay couples."

He admits the recent talk of plotting by MPs against Mr Cameron's leadership is
"damaging" for his party, but also brands coup attempts "ludicrous" and tells
plotters to "can it - and get behind the Prime Minister".

The Chancellor, meanwhile, is someone who "understands very well what business
needs now; he believes in low taxes".

Why is Mr Fallon a Conservative? "Because I believe in freedom, I believe in
enterprise and I believe in opportunity. I want the gap between what's
compulsory and what's forbidden to be as large as possible. That's
Conservatism."

With many Tories now pushing for radical tax cuts to stimulate growth, how far
would he go there? "Enterprise is low taxation. Half of our GDP is [currently]
state spending. We can't achieve the nirvana of a low-tax country overnight.
It's a long road."

Furthermore, he insists that the Coalition has already delivered lower taxes,
citing income tax cuts for the lowest paid, council tax freezes and large cuts
in corporation tax, as well reducing the "absurd" 50p top rate of income tax.

While Labour has been quick to brand the last move as a "tax cut for
millionaires", the others are all helping "hard-working families", Mr Fallon
argues.

His post as one of "four and a half" Tory ministers at the Business Department
(Matthew Hancock spends half the week there and the other half at the Department
for Education) does not, of course, give Mr Fallon the freedom to set tax
policy. It does, however, allow him to try to increase the flow of money - both
lent directly by the state and via banks - to companies.

He spends much of his time on the road promoting, among other things, the
Government's Dragon's Den style start-up loans for entrepreneurs under the age
of 30. About 100 of these are now being dished out every week - with a target of
30,000 by 2015.

He also wants banks to be much more open about their lending - and last week
wrote (along with Greg Clark, the Treasury minister) to bank bosses to urge
greater transparency. One plan is for bank lending to be published on a
constituency-byconstituency basis, to arm MPs with facts.

"MPs need to know which banks are back in the business of lending and which
aren't supporting their small businesses," he says.

If Michael Fallon has a mission at the Business Department, though, it is one
very much in the spirit of Thatcherism. He is the minister in charge of plans to
privatise Royal Mail - and declares his aim of completing the historic move by
April 2014.

"It's one of our largest companies. It makes no sense, when it needs to invest
and innovate, to deny it access to the capital markets. And I don't want to
delay any longer the chance for its 130,000 staff to have a stake in the
business, which parliament has already prescribed."

Mr Fallon reassures critics that the Universal Service Obligation - forcing
Royal Mail to deliver post at one price to every home in the UK, six days a week
- is already protected under the 2009 Act, paving the way for privatisation. He
describes the amount of government work on the privatisation plan as "intense".
"We are determined to try to do this in 2013-14," he says.

If the Government could pull off, in what remain tricky market conditions, what
would be the biggest privatisation since 1990 - something Labour tried but
failed to do when Lord Mandelson was business secretary (Mr Fallon suspects the
party's "heart wasn't in it ideologically") - it would be an achievement which,
potentially, could help to heal Tory rifts in the run-up to the 2015 general
election. It would give the party, at long last, something to unite around.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHRISTOPHER PLEDGER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                February 3, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Westminster's Tory tots must to some growing up;
The mutineers are living in a Hogwarts fantasy world - where all it needs to
achieve growth is a wave of the magic wand

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1168 words


The Conservatives have a do-ordie decision to make before the next general
election - and it is not about the identity of their leader. They must decide
if, having dominated the 20th century, they are serious about being a party of
government in the 21st. They must decide if they want to retain their reputation
as the nation's crisis managers. They must decide if they want to be seen as
political grown-ups, or a bunch of overgrown kids using Westminster as a
playground.

At this stage of the Parliament, Ed Miliband was expected to be the tribal chief
facing a leadership crisis, and the Lib Dems the party answering hard questions
about their commitment to office. Yet, in February 2013, it is David Cameron who
is being undermined by talk of a leadership contest, and the Conservatives who -
in some garrulous cases, anyway - are more deeply preoccupied by internal party
intrigue than by the governance of the country.

The reports last weekend of a fledgling plot to install the MP for Windsor, Adam
Afriyie, as Tory leader seemed initially like a fabulous spoof to brighten up
the long winter nights. But it soon became clear that there is indeed such a
campaign, grooming its candidate for greatness. There is something manipulative
and drearily patronising about the off-the-record claims that Afriyie could be
the "British Obama", simply because of his ethnicity.

For all I know, he may yet demonstrate that he has the stuff of greatness, but
it is absurd to suggest that he has already done so. To most voters, he is what
Donald Rumsfeld would call an "Unknown Unknown". Small wonder, then, that the
agitators for change - let us call them the "Afriyards" - are themselves
confused. My favourite sentence in last week's newspapers appeared in Friday's
Guardian: "The manoeuvring has exposed divisions among supporters of Afriyie."
The People's Front of Judea, it seems, is already splitting.

All this, of course, is meant to be a warning sent from the parliamentary party
to Cameron. On Tuesday, his MPs will send another such shot across the prime
ministerial bows with the vote on gay marriage. The Government will win, thanks
to Labour and Lib Dem support; but, as things stand this weekend, its political
managers expect as many as half of the Tory party's 303 MPs to vote against it.
Last July, 91 Conservatives opposed the Coalition's plans for Lords reform.
There have been mutinies on Europe, rumblings over HS2, a mood of easily
triggered confrontation between Government and MPs.

For this disconnect, Cameron must accept some of the blame. He was right to take
robust action over the expenses scandal in 2009, but did too little afterwards
to restore relations with his bruised backbenchers, many of whom felt
ill-treated by the young, wealthy Cameroons. His early attempt as Prime Minister
to neuter the back-bench 1922 Committee backfired badly. He could have spent
more time glad-handing in the tea-rooms, soothing those MPs denied promotion by
Lib Dems guaranteed office by the terms of the Coalition.

Yet the mutineers are wrong about almost everything else. They blame Cameron for
not winning the election outright in 2010, glossing over the fact that the
Tories still gained the highest number of seats in an election since 1931. Even
now, he is consistently ahead of his party in the polls. And - much as the Right
grumbles about the Lib Dem "tail wagging the dog" - the comparative stability of
the Coalition that many Conservatives didn't want in the first place has made
possible radical policies on (for instance) welfare, schools, localism, a
referendum lock on future EU treaties, an immigration cap, the lifting of two
million workers out of income tax, and a farreaching austerity blueprint.
Incomplete as it is, the inventory is certainly more impressive than what a Tory
government with a small majority would have achieved.

It is astonishing, too, that so many around Westminster still talk about a
"leadership challenge", even though the Conservative Party rules have prevented
such a manoeuvre since 1998. To force a contest, the rebels would have to get
rid of Cameron first - and, as we know from his Sunday Telegraph interview last
month, he intends to stick around until 2020 at the earliest.

What, more to the point, do the rebels want? It used to be a tougher line on
Europe, but now that the PM has offered them repatriation of powers from
Brussels followed by an In/Out referendum, they have had to find new grievances.
Most of the supporters of the increasingly baffled Mr Afriyie call for economic
recovery and more aggressive spending cuts. It strikes me that some Tory MPs
wish the world were like Hogwarts and that growth could be produced by a spell:
if only George Osborne would point his wand at a small pile of coins and cry:
"Engorgio!"

Unfortunately, Potternomics are not enough in a complex, globalised system. No
chancellor - no act of ministerial fiat - could have prevented, say, the
chilling effect on the British economy of the eurozone crisis. And often those
MPs who shout most loudly for a "proper growth strategy" are the fiscal nimbys
who object most strenuously when new infrastructure proposals threaten the
unspoilt landscape of their constituencies.

As for spending cuts, there is no doubt that more are on the way. Osborne's
Budget, to be delivered on March 20, is almost ready. The spending review will
follow later this year, and was the subject of a recent Cabinet discussion in
which Iain Duncan Smith's colleagues pushed him for further welfare savings. But
if the insurgent MPs think that what the Tories are missing politically is more
austerity, they are madder than they seem.

Osborne's cuts may look modest on a graph. But they will not feel modest in MPs'
surgeries, or on protest rallies, or in grim case studies on our television
screens, when they really start to bite.

The notion that Cameron is a loser holding back a party of winners is so far
from the truth that one fears for a political movement in which such a view is
almost respectable. The Conservatives have long been in the grip of the
Führerprinzip, the notion that everything flows from leadership. The trouble
with this pathology - for pathology it is - has always been that it encourages
mutinous instability as much as slavish devotion. Accordingly, one of the Tory
party's gravest misconceptions is that all difficulties can be overcome by a
change of leader.

Cameron will not be replaced before the election. But the mutineers can cause a
lot of damage between now and then, feeding headlines, exuding recklessness,
setting ultimatums: sack Osborne, perform strongly in the 2014 elections,
deliver growth - or else. Or else what? Each time such a threat is made, the
only sure consequence is that the voters become more convinced that the
Conservative Party didn't really learn its lesson in 13 years of opposition.
Cameron has made mistakes, but none as lethal as the campaign of self-harm upon
which the plotters are now engaged. The problem isn't him. It's them.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                February 3, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU referendum;
TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 288 words


SIR - The commentaries on David Cameron's speech on Europe (Comment, January 27)
by Bernard Ingham, Lord Lamont, and Sir Malcolm Rifkind make interesting
reading. But they all put too much trust in the integrity of Mr Cameron himself.
The last two and a half years have shown him to be a man ever-ready to renege on
promises. Norman Lamont's comment, "The Prime Minister is ideally suited to
negotiate the best outcome", beggars belief.

Mr Cameron is a Europhile at heart and is opposed to an in-out referendum. In
any negotiation his sympathies willl lie with his Euro friends rather than the
best interests of the British people.

David Robertson Woodford Green, Essex

SIR - Ed Miliband's position on an EU referendum will be thoroughly exposed when
people come to realises the staggering degree to which British sovereignty was
given away to Brussels during 13 years of Labour incompetence. If Labour had not
been so irresponsible, Mr Cameron would not have such a hill to climb. But at
last a politician of stature has begun to articulate the long-held feelings of
many in Europe.

The standard EU refusal to respect previous French, Dutch and Irish votes will
not be acceptable from now on. The wind of democracy is beginning to blow
through the corridors of the EU.

B J Colby Portishead, Somerset

SIR - David Miliband says (report, January 27): "If major changes emerge in
Europe in the next five years that shift the balance of power, then a referendum
comes on to the agenda. If not, it doesn't." So if benefits to Britain are
negotiated, voters should be allowed to decide whether to accept them or leave
the EU. But if the status quo persists, we should not be allowed a vote.

Sic transit democratia. Michael Bacon Farnham, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                February 3, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU DEBATE MPs PLUMB NEW DEPTHS OF VACUITY

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 464 words


Even on Radio 4's Today programme, it is hard to recall any item more vacuous
than the 12-minute interview last Thursday in which that battered old Euromaniac
Kenneth Clarke was excitably egged on by John Humphrys to explain why it would
be "a fatal mistake" for Britain to leave the EU.

Constantly talking over Clarke, Humphrys himself even went so far in betraying
his bias as to compare those calling for a referendum to the "hangers and
floggers" of yesteryear. The most dismal consequence of David Cameron's promise
that we might one day have an In/Out referendum has been the eruption on all
sides of Europhiles suggesting not just that it would be disastrous for Britain
to leave the EU, but that even to talk of a referendum is creating such a miasma
of fear and uncertainty that it is already imperilling the future of Britain's
economy.

Last week provided no spectacle more dismal, however, than the House of Commons.
This began on Monday with Speaker Bercow's support for the idea that MPs should
get a 30 per cent pay rise, just as the rest of us are facing years of
austerity. On Tuesday, we saw Nick Clegg's Lib Dems vengefully refusing to
support those promised boundary changes that might give their Tory Coalition
allies 20 more seats at the next election. This prompted that admirable
parliamentary commentator Quentin Letts to a wonderfully contemptuous threnody
on the depths to which, in the past 20 years, he has seen Parliament sink.

This was followed on Wednesday by a six-hour debate on "Europe" in which,
without exception, MPs regurgitated to an often largely empty House nothing but
equally empty cliches, most so ancient that they were already familiar decades
ago.

Not a single MP, Europhile or Eurosceptic, seemed to have the slightest grasp of
how the EU actually works or the rules it lives by. Not one knew enough to spell
out why Mr Cameron's proposals are no more than wishful thinking. Not one, for
instance, was aware that for Cameron to get his "renegotiation" would, under the
Lisbon Treaty, require a new treaty, involving procedures so lengthy that they
would last way past his 2017 deadline. The only way he could get the
negotiations he says he wants would be to invoke Article 50 of the treaty, which
not a single MP seemed aware of - and which Mr Cameron has already ruled out,
because it would require him first to declare Britain's intention to leave the
EU.

One of the heaviest prices we have paid for handing over the running of our
country to this system centred in Brussels is that our MPs have lost all ability
to think for themselves, or to do enough homework to allow them to relate to the
real world. All these sad people can think about is how they should be given a
pay rise, for serving us more lamentably than any MPs in history.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ringmaster of a dismal circus: Speaker Bercow oversaw the proceedings
of a sad week in Westminster

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Missed Davos? Here are the five things you need to know;
Business has looked at Cameron's path to a possible referendum on EU membership
and largely shrugged its shoulders

BYLINE: KAMAL AHMED

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1167 words


After a week in the Alps attending the World Economic Forum it is tempting to
think - so, what was all that about? A lot of people fear that the heaters
peppering the conference centre may not be the only things generating hot air.

But, through the blizzard of position papers and risk reports,
sustainable-development plans and faith-leadership huddles, Igwels (informal
gatherings of world economic leaders) and Nightcaps (late night parties, invite
only), there are some big themes that are well worth teasing out.

So, as they say in the X Factor, in no particular order, here they are:

REFERENDUM NOT 'GREY SWAN' FOR BUSINESS

AS we report today, the general mood of Davos has been optimism. It is the year
when some have whispered that the global economy may just have turned a corner.

Of course, the economies of the West are still in poor shape, but American
fundamentals are better, the eurozone crisis has abated (don't forget that last
year there was serious talk of the euro breaking apart) and businesses are
wondering what to do with the huge cash-piles sitting on their balance sheets.

"There just needs to be one good IPO or merger to get away and then there will
be lots that follow," said one senior banker I saw here.

David Cameron has now laid out the path to a possible referendum on the UK's
membership of the European Union, business has looked at it and largely shrugged
its shoulders.

Paul Polman, the chief executive of Unilever, said that he didn't run the
company's strategy according to the Prime Minister's speeches. CP Gurnani, chief
executive of IT giant Mahindra Satyam, formerly Mahindra British Telecom, now in
the top-10 list of India's biggest companies, said it didn't matter whether the
UK was in the EU or not. What he worries about are employment law, tax rates and
immigration policy - things the Government can do something about.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said that UK representatives in Brussels
wouldn't suddenly disappear just because the UK pulled out. A reformed EU with
Britain in it was his preferred option, but a pull out "would not be
calamitous". As the late, lamented Michael Winner might have said: "Calm down
dear".

CHINA - OPEN SESAME

DR XIANG BING, Dean of Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business, is one of a
number of "rock star" academics here whose bullish stance on China makes a
persuasive case.

He gave an electrifying presentation on Thursday, claiming that it was a total
"misconception" that China operated a closed, state-governed economy and that
Europe's complacency about how to deal with the country was damaging the West's
growth prospects.

China is always a major debating point at Davos, and Xiang summed up much of the
mood of the conference when he contrasted the optimism of the East with the
pessimism of the West.

He pointed out that of the world's top 30 technology firms "some are from
America, some are from China, none are from Europe or the UK", arguing that
China was the home of private sector entrepreneurs.

Fears over the role of state-owned enterprises was overdone, he said. "90pc of
new jobs come from the private sector".

The vast majority of exports from China are actually generated by foreign direct
investment - businesses such as Wal-Mart, Apple and Samsung using the country as
a manufacturing base. The UK should learn the lessons and invest wisely.

CURRENCYWARS ARE COMING

MUCH of the conversation over the krautpizokel (Swiss dumpling) has been
dominated by how countries are approaching their currency as a tool of growth.
The latest to join the moneyprinting merry-go-round is Japan, where the new
prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has said he wants to see "bold monetary easing"
supported by the central bank.

The yen has fallen rapidly in response, to a twoyear low against the dollar.
This is increasing prices there and having a knock-on effect on the eurozone
where Germany's exports to Japan have been hit by the exchange-rate changes.

A "race to the bottom" in currency valuations could leave the euro high and dry
as Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, has yet to fully
open the eurozone monetary taps.

George Soros, the legendary former fund manager, said a currency battle between
China and Japan - let alone the US - could raise serious conflicts: "The
undervaluation of the renminbi was China's secret weapon." Now that the currency
was appreciating, volatility internally and clashes abroad could result. You
have been warned.

RUSSIA IS INTERESTING, AFRICA IS BETTER

THE Prime Minister of Russia, Dmitry Medvedev, used Davos to launch Russia's
chairmanship of the G20.

The big message from the country is that it is a place to do business. The
Russian economy is expected to grow from $2 trillion (£1.3 trillion) in 2011 to
more than $3.2 trillion in 2017. It also has one of the lowest levels of public
debt of any major economy. In order to polish its credentials, Russia handed out
small branding booklets called Invest in Russia! They even put an exclamation
mark at the end to show they meant it.

Many are sceptical, with one business figure with strong links to Russia saying
that the country needed major reform to allow entrepreneurialism to flourish.
It's very hard starting a small business in the country. Others say that much of
Africa, particularly with many historic links to the UK, is a better option
despite the political instability.

The Russia Direct Investment Fund, something George Osborne, the Chancellor,
should look at for the UK, has an unpaid board of big hitters in finance,
including Stephen Schwarzman, chief executive of Blackstone, Lou Jiwei, chief
executive of the China Investment Corporation, and Bader Mohammad Al-Sa'ad,
managing director of the Kuwait Investment Authority. Their reputations will be
on the line if it fails to operate transparently.

BEWARE BANKING IN THE SHADOWS

MARK CARNEY, the next Governor of the Bank of England, has been in Davos,
politely refusing all requests to speak to the media. He did meet George Osborne
to discuss next year's priorities.

High on the agenda will be price stability and whether the Bank should have a
simple, singleinflation target or a suite of indicators. As we reveal today,
Adair Turner, the chairman of the Financial Services Authority who missed out on
the top job, is making a major speech on the issue shortly, saying a review is
now necessary.

Also top of Mr Carney's in-tray will be shadow banking, the complex world of
trading, non-bank lending and derivative products that are not part of the
financial services regulatory framework.

Although individually, firms in this area do not pose a systemic risk as banks
do, they act as a rapid "accelerator" if unsustainable bubbles in, for example,
asset prices, are developing.

Mr Carney's big fear, I'm told, is that controlling shadow banking will not be
high on politicians' agenda. Why? Because they don't understand it.

You can contact Kamal Ahmed about his column at kahmed@telegraph.co.uk and
follow him during the week on Twitter at kamalahmed1

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Missed Davos? Here are the five things you need to know

BYLINE: KAMAL AHMED

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1169 words


After a week in the Alps attending the World Economic Forum it is tempting to
think - so, what was all that about? A lot of people fear that the heaters
peppering the conference centre may not be the only things generating hot air.

But, through the blizzard of position papers and risk reports,
sustainable-development plans and faith-leadership huddles, Igwels (informal
gatherings of world economic leaders) and Nightcaps (late night parties, invite
only), there are some big themes that are well worth teasing out.

So, as they say in the X Factor, in no particular order, here they are:
REFERENDUM NOT 'GREY SWAN' FOR BUSINESS AS we report today, the general mood of
Davos has been optimism. It is the year when some have whispered that the global
economy may just have turned a corner.

Of course, the economies of the West are still in poor shape, but American
fundamentals are better, the eurozone crisis has abated (don't forget that last
year there was serious talk of the euro breaking apart) and businesses are
wondering what to do with the huge cash-piles sitting on their balance sheets.

"There just needs to be one good IPO or merger to get away and then there will
be lots that follow," said one senior banker I saw here.

David Cameron has now laid out the path to a possible referendum on the UK's
membership of the European Union, business has looked at it and largely shrugged
its shoulders.

Paul Polman, the chief executive of Unilever, said that he didn't run the
company's strategy according to the Prime Minister's speeches. CP Gurnani, chief
executive of IT giant Mahindra Satyam, formerly Mahindra British Telecom, now in
the top-10 list of India's biggest companies, said it didn't matter whether the
UK was in the EU or not. What he worries about are employment law, tax rates and
immigration policy - things the Government can do something about.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said that UK representatives in Brussels
wouldn't suddenly disappear just because the UK pulled out. A reformed EU with
Britain in it was his preferred option, but a pull-out "would not be
calamitous". As the late, lamented Michael Winner might have said: "Calm down
dear".

CHINA - OPEN SESAME DR XIANG BING, Dean of Cheung Kong Graduate School of
Business, is one of a number of "rock star" academics here whose bullish stance
on China makes a persuasive case.

He gave an electrifying presentation on Thursday, claiming that it was a total
"misconception" that China operated a closed, state-governed economy and that
Europe's complacency about how to deal with the country was damaging the West's
growth prospects.

China is always a major debating point at Davos, and Xiang summed up much of the
mood of the conference when he contrasted the optimism of the East with the
pessimism of the West.

He pointed out that of the world's top 30 technology firms "some are from
America, some are from China, none are from Europe or the UK", arguing that
China was the home of private sector entrepreneurs.

Fears over the role of state-owned enterprises was overdone, he said, adding:
"90pc of new jobs come from the private sector".

The vast majority of exports from China are actually generated by foreign direct
investment - businesses such as Wal-Mart, Apple and Samsung using the country as
a manufacturing base. The UK should learn the lessons and invest wisely.

CURRENCYWARS ARE COMING MUCH of the conversation over the krautpizokel (Swiss
dumpling) has been dominated by how countries are approaching their currency as
a tool of growth. The latest to join the moneyprinting merry-go-round is Japan,
where the new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has said he wants to see "bold
monetary easing" supported by the central bank.

The yen has fallen rapidly in response, to a twoyear low against the dollar.
This is increasing prices there and having a knock-on effect on the eurozone
where Germany's exports to Japan have been hit by the exchange-rate changes.

A "race to the bottom" in currency valuations could leave the euro high and dry
as Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, has yet to fully
open the eurozone monetary taps.

George Soros, the legendary former fund manager, said a currency battle between
China and Japan - let alone the US - could raise serious conflicts: "The
undervaluation of the renminbi was China's secret weapon." Now that the currency
was appreciating, volatility internally and clashes abroad could result. You
have been warned.

RUSSIA IS INTERESTING, AFRICA IS BETTER THE Prime Minister of Russia, Dmitry
Medvedev, used Davos to launch Russia's chairmanship of the G20.

The big message from the country is that it is a place to do business. The
Russian economy is expected to grow from $2 trillion (£1.3 trillion) in 2011 to
more than $3.2 trillion in 2017. It also has one of the lowest levels of public
debt of any major economy. In order to polish its credentials, Russia handed out
small branding booklets called Invest in Russia! They even put an exclamation
mark at the end to show they meant it.

Many are sceptical, with one business figure with strong links to Russia saying
that the country needed major reform to allow entrepreneurialism to flourish.
It's very hard starting a small business in the country. Others say that much of
Africa, particularly with many historic links to the UK, is a better option
despite the political instability.

The Russia Direct Investment Fund, something George Osborne, the Chancellor,
should look at for the UK, has an unpaid board of big hitters in finance,
including Stephen Schwarzman, chief executive of Blackstone, Lou Jiwei, chief
executive of the China Investment Corporation, and Bader Mohammad Al-Sa'ad,
managing director of the Kuwait Investment Authority. Their reputations will be
on the line if it fails to operate transparently.

BEWARE BANKING IN THE SHADOWS MARK CARNEY, the next Governor of the Bank of
England, has been in Davos, politely refusing all requests to speak to the
media. He did meet George Osborne to discuss next year's priorities.

High on the agenda will be price stability and whether the Bank should have a
simple, singleinflation target or a suite of indicators. As we reveal today,
Adair Turner, the chairman of the Financial Services Authority who missed out on
the top job, is making a major speech on the issue shortly, saying a review is
now necessary.

Also top of Mr Carney's in-tray will be shadow banking, the complex world of
trading, non-bank lending and derivative products that are not part of the
financial services regulatory framework.

Although individually, firms in this area do not pose a systemic risk as banks
do, they act as a rapid "accelerator" if unsustainable bubbles in, for example,
asset prices, are developing.

Mr Carney's big fear, I'm told, is that controlling shadow banking will not be
high on politicians' agenda. Why? Because they don't understand it.

You can contact Kamal Ahmed about his column at kahmed@telegraph.co.uk and
follow him during the week on Twitter at kamalahmed1

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bingo-hall vote caps classic piece of EU double dealing;
With no time for debate and a sea of confused MEPs, this is democracy,
Brussels-style

BYLINE: GILLIGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1535 words


ALL SEVEN tiers of seats in the giant meeting room were rammed with people, and
the sun poured in through big windows at the back. Rows of lobbyists in the
spectator section ticked off decisions worth billions as Paolo de Castro,
chairman of the European Parliament's agriculture committee, read out the votes
as if he were a bingo caller, two or three a minute.

"Amendment 510, those in favour, those against, abstentions, carried," said Mr
de Castro, in Italian, without pausing or even looking up. (That amendment alone
was something that could cost British taxpayers up to £45 million).

"Amendment 511, those in favour, those against, abstentions, carried. Amendment
512 ... er, sorry, we forgot to vote on 485 - it's recital 83, amendment 485, we
missed it out." Urgent, multilingual cries of "What? What? Where is it?" arose
from the MEPs as they rifled desperately through their instructions to learn
whether they should lower or raise their hands.

"Anyway, we can control later, it is better to make a vote," Mr de Castro said.
"Those in favour? Rejected? Oh no, carried, better check."

Welcome to democracy, Brussels-style. Last Wednesday, David Cameron made his big
speech promising a "better deal" from Europe. But at precisely the same moment,
this committee, almost entirely unnoticed in Britain, was voting to worsen the
deal we've already got. Over two marathon days, they laid down the future of
perhaps the most unpopular policy in Europe, a policy that costs each British
taxpayer roughly £180 a year: the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).

It is the largest single item of EU expenditure, accounting for between 31 and
40 per cent of the budget, and essentially a form of protectionism for European
farmers, who are subsidised as guardians of the countryside and shielded by
tariff penalties on imported food. This, of course, has often made food prices
in our shops higher than necessary, and the blocks on the ability of developing
countries to sell their crops have also contributed greatly to poverty in the
Third World. The CAP has always been controversial in countries such as Britain
and Holland where farming makes up a small part of the economy and which benefit
far less than the likes of Poland and France.

In the Seventies and Eighties it became a public scandal, with farmers paid
billions of pounds to produce food that nobody wanted, food that had to be
stored at public expense in the infamous butter mountains and wine lakes. In the
Nineties, under so-called "decoupling", the EU began finally to move away from
simply subsidising the production of specific crops, with funding instead more
dependent on observing minimum standards of animal welfare or care for the
environment.

Last week, the agriculture committee voted, in several ways, to go backwards in
time. They passed "recoupling". This re-establishes, on a smaller scale, the
discredited practice of subsidising particular crops for the sake of it. It
blocked transparency provisions, which would have published the names of all the
beneficiaries and the amounts they received.

The committee also voted for something that Owen Paterson, the Environment
Secretary, yesterday described as "immoral and illegal" double funding: paying
farmers twice for doing the same thing.

The CAP budget is divided into two "pillars". Under Pillar 1, which accounts for
about 75 per cent of the budget, farmers are all-but guaranteed set payments
according to the size of their farms, as long as they meet certain minimum
standards. Under Pillar 2, which is designed to reward environmental and
enterprise initiatives, funding is more conditional and farmers must do more to
earn it.

The European Commission proposed to make about a third of farmers' Pillar 1
payments more conditional on them being "green". But the committee decided last
week that any farmer could receive the "green" Pillar 1 money automatically if
they already collected any payment, however small, for environmental measures
under Pillar 2.

This would mean that farmers were effectively paid twice for the same work,
something that is supposed to be against EU law.

And because Pillar 1 funding is worth so much more than Pillar 2, farmers would
also be able to get far more "green" funding by doing only token amounts for the
environment.

Even in the Commission's original plans, many suspected the environment was
little more than a pretext. As MPs on the Commons environment select committee
put it last year: "We are concerned that the Commission is pursuing a greening
agenda as a way to justify the continuation of [subsidies], rather than as a
means to deliver genuine environmental improvements."

After last week's votes, the cynicism has come right out into the open. Mr de
Castro said explicitly that "any further cuts to the CAP budget are simply
unacceptable". Double payments are a handy way of keeping the cash flowing at or
near its present level, and his committee - dominated by farmers, including at
least two former presidents of European farmers' unions - was only too happy to
go along with it.

"It is pretty explicit, pretty blatant," said Philippe Carr, a spokesman for the
Brussels office of the WWF environmental charity. "In the worstcase scenario, it
could cost around (EURO)3billion [£2.6billion] a year.

"The first pillar, with its automatic funding, will be maintained. All the
budget cuts will happen on the good part of the CAP, Pillar 2, which will be
hollowed out. As well as a waste of money, it's going to be detrimental to the
environment." Hedgerows, wildlife and biodiversity across the UK are at risk.

Mr Paterson, one of the Cabinet's most prominent Eurosceptics, attacked the
votes as "disappointing, retrograde, backward-looking" and in some respects
"ludicrous".

"There's tremendous public pressure to keep food prices down, and there's no
great sympathy for subsidising farmers to produce foodstuffs that are not
wanted. And here we've got ludicrous stuff like tobacco being subsidised: I'm
genuinely disappointed," he said.

If last week's vote shows the unreformed nature of much Euro-thinking, it also
shows up the EU's flawed democratic processes.

These hugely important changes have emerged almost entirely without public
involvement, knowledge or debate. The amendments, and the compromises between
them which were passed, were produced in private, and even published only a few
days before last week's hearing.

With as many as 8,000 amendments to consider on Wednesday and Thursday - though
the number was reduced by compromises - there was no time for debate, or indeed
for anything but the votes.

One member of the committee, Stuart Agnew, the Ukip MEP for East of England,
showed me his 124-page ringbinder of voting instructions, compiled by his
assistant.

"This is about half of what we have to vote on," he said.

"It is very difficult to follow, and this is where things go wrong. The
translation is pretty quick, but it's still two seconds. It's like early
lambing. If you fall behind, you never catch up."

Some members - not Mr Agnew - were quite plainly at sea, not sure what they were
voting for.

Who could blame them, faced with such sentences as: "If a farmer in a Natura
2000 area also wished to claim payments under the AECM, then the Pillar 1
greening measures do form part of the environmental baseline for payments under
the AECM." That was one of the explanatory memos: the amendments themselves were
even worse.

As Mr Carr put it: "We're dealing with a whole pool of MEPs who haven't really
considered the issues. When they actually do consider what they're voting for,
some of them have changed their minds."

The agriculture committee includes a British Lib Dem MEP, George Lyon; but
discovering how the committee members actually voted is not easy. In one other
way the European Parliament differs from a proper assembly, committee votes are
not recorded, so no member can be held to account for their view.

Last week's vote won't be the final word. The full parliament must approve it in
plenary session, and since the largest and third-largest party groupings both
back double payments, they seem likely to pass. The Council of Ministers, which
represents national governments, must also agree, not to mention provide the
money at next month's budget negotiations. Double payments are effectively
backed by Germany and France, the biggest two members. The Commission is
against, but this year is the first in which the parliament has had powers of
"co-decision" over the CAP, so its views, combined with those of the Council,
may well prevail.

Mr de Castro insists that his new deal will be better in many ways, capping, for
instance, the amounts that giant landlords such as big companies and the Royal
family can receive.

"The new CAP should be more efficient, greener and able to respond to the
enormous challenges ahead of us," he said. "Such ambitious goals entail higher
costs."

Only in Brussels, perhaps, could higher costs be justified as "more efficient".

It's all rather discouraging for Mr Cameron's hopes of reform.

THE PM AND A SPEECH TO DEFINE HIS PREMIERSHIP

Referendum pledge has united Tories: How party grandees view Cameron's Europe
moment

Pages 8 to 9

'Only in Brussels could higher costs be more efficient'

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEPs are given vastly detailed voting instructions, meaning many
struggle to keep up on what is being decided

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK missing investment trick, says Deripaska;
DAVOS 2013

BYLINE: EMMA ROWLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 462 words


BRITAIN is chasing an agenda that will scare away business and needs a proper
"development plan" to accompany its austerity push, according to Oleg Deripaska,
the Russian metals tycoon.

Mr Deripaska, chief executive of the world's biggest aluminium producer, Rusal,
said the UK was a "country which could progress much faster ... but suddenly
decided to choose a different agenda", while the US is currently "more
attractive".

"You neglect your financial institutions, you put so much pressure on your
bankers," he said. "You scare them to death ... [meaning that they are less]
active in global trade, global financing, and you lose a lot of opportunity.

"It's the wrong perception, that the bankers and financiers are bad people. If
you don't trust the previous generation, you just go and choose new ones." While
cynics will suggest that Rusal's near $11bn (£7bn) debt load would mean Mr
Deripaska is unlikely to call for tighter banking controls, he made the
criticism as part of a broader argument that Britain is failing to seize its
opportunity on the global stage.

He spoke to The Sunday Telegraph at the World Economic Forum, after David
Cameron gave a headline speech pledging to clamp down on international
companies' tax arrangements, shortly after he had promised Britons a referendum
on the UK's future within Europe.

That was a mistake in terms of attracting investment into the country, Mr
Deripaska suggested. "I just listened to your prime minister and I was
surprised," he said.

"Instead of promoting British opportunity, he tried to scare people that there
may be a new arrangement with the European Union.

"I think it's very counterproductive. If he wants to negotiate, he should do so
quietly. I don't know why you want to put your agenda on every wall." As for
whether the UK should stay in the EU, Mr Deripaska asked: "Do you want to stay
with Pakistan or Germany? Maybe I'm a little bit naive and too narrow, but this
is, sort of, the choice you have."

Currently, Britain's austerity plan lacks an accompanying "development plan", he
argued.

"You need to use this opportunity - that you have a better tax system than the
rest of Europe," he said.

"You need to attract more manufacturing, but instead, you say, 'Okay, we are
going to be looking at how you structure your cash flow'."

As a result, businesses' lawyers will warn them to take a "cautious" view of the
UK over the next seven years or so, he suggested, warning against letting NGOs
(non-governmental organisations) set the economic agenda.

"NGOs are not capable of running a country's economy," he said.

"They are capable of raising the flag if something's wrong, but it's a great
mistake to give them a chance for leadership. First of all, they are the most
untransparent legal entities in the world."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska believes Britain is chasing the
wrong agenda and deterring foreign investment
SIMON DAWSON/BLOOMBERG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DAVOS BY NUMBERS

BYLINE: Emma Rowley

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 635 words


2,500 The number of leaders from business, politics and other sectors who
attended Davos, from more than 100 countries.

17pc The proportion of those who were women, still a source of contention for
critics.

16 The number of "faith leaders" invited - or one for each 100 business chiefs
present.

£16.88 Cost of a pizza at the Hotel Alte Post, where David Cameron and co
enjoyed a meal on the eve of the UK's disappointing -0.3pc growth figure.

2 How many CEO types there are, according to Ian Livingston, the BT chief
executive. "Those that know their systems are being hacked and those that
don't," he warned delegates.

3.5pc IMF's prediction for growth in the world economy this year, a better
figure than last year.

2 Position claimed in the Davos Twitter board by Nouriel Roubini, boasting
"Yours truly is #2 in Most Retweets rank." He was promptly smacked down by
writer Paulo Coelho, who told him: "Yours truly #1."

-14c The temperature to which the mercury plunged on cold Davos nights,
prompting hot tempers and sharp elbows among delegates queueing to be shuttled
back to their hotels after parties.

6m The threshold below which the number of children dying each year will fall in
2015, according to Bill Gates, down from 12m in 1990. "That's way faster than
we've ever done before," the Microsoft founder told a session on development
goals.

0 Fathers who raised their hands when Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg told them to do
so if they had ever been asked if they should be working after having children.
She warned stereotypes were still holding women back.

25pc Proportion of the world's population that actually uses the internet,
according to its inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee. But he saw a new digital divide
opening up - between those who can code and "make a computer do whatever you can
imagine" and those who cannot.

6pc Increase in US consumer spending by Bank of America customers in January
compared with last year, according to Brian Moynihan, the bank's CEO. In a bank
of this size, that's $40bn spending in a month. "I feel optimism with a sober
tone," he said.

5 Number of years within which David Cameron has promised to hold a referendum
on Britain's role in Europe, a major topic of conversation in Davos. Still, it's
"an eternity in politics," as Ireland's Taoiseach Enda Kenny noted at a session.

1pc Amount Britain's economy will grow this year, according to the IMF - less
than the 1.1pc it predicted in October and below the Government's 1.2pc
forecast.

43pc Proportion of UK chief executives who "intend to complete a domestic deal"
in the next 12 months, according to a report by PwC - more than in any other
country surveyed by the accounting firm.

22pc By contrast this was the number of CEOs who said they were very confident
about growth prospects in the year ahead - less than the average of 36pc in the
PwC survey.

0 The number of journalists at the annual Barclays dinner, which was closed to
the media for the first time. Nicholas Sarkozym, the special guest at the event,
apparently did not want any pesky hacks spoiling his meal.

50bn Amount, in euros, by which a free trade deal with the US could boost EU
GDP, according to David Cameron.

5 Multiplier by which US GDP per capita - economic output per citizen - dwarfs
China's, according to Li Daoku, the leading economist, who explained why he sees
room for more growth in China and does not worry "at all" about its slowdown.

15 Time, in minutes, some poor souls in Westminster have to spend waiting for
their desktops to boot up in the morning, according to Francis Maude, the
Cabinet Office minister. "There's parts of the UK government where the IT
systems have such a high level of security that they are virtually unusable," he
told a session on cyber crime, even though "most of the material government
handles is not very sensitive."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sheryl Sandberg warned of danger of stereotyping

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DAVOS: THE ICY CHILL BEGINS TO THAW;
New signs of optimism and confidence abound at the World Economic Forum, writes
Louise Armitstead Davos 2013 telegraph.co.uk/Davos

BYLINE: Louise Armitstead

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1718 words


'Another bubble, another crisis," thundered Dr Doom. The revered US economist,
also known as Nouriel Roubini, was giving his assessment of the work of global
central banks and their money-printing exercises; his prognosis as frosty as the
mountains outside Davos.

Delegates nodded in resignation: Dr Doom, or Permabear, as he is also dubbed,
was once dismissed as outlandish for his apocalyptic forecasts; but in 2008
Forbes said he was a sage and he has been a grim highlight at the World Economic
Forum ever since.

But last week, Davos delegates were shocked when Prof Roubini unexpectedly
added: "I'm playing devil's advocate." Necks swivelled and backs straightened as
he continued: although quantitative easing had unknown "long-term economic
consequences", he saw its merits.

"I've not heard Dr Doom being less pessimistic for a long time," said Dominic
Barton, head of McKinsey. "I'm taking that as a pretty good sign."

Of course Prof Roubini was far from upbeat. Later he Tweeted: "Eurozone
tail-risks and strains are lower but economic problems remain chronic:
recession, competitiveness loss, debt sustainability."

But his note of optimism chimed with others - politicians, central bankers,
financiers and international business leaders - to produce an unexpected but
unmistakably positive moodmusic at Davos 2013.

Mario Draghi, the chairman of the European Central Bank, said 2012 was the "year
of the relaunch of the euro"; Anshu Jain, boss of Deutsche Bank, said central
banks were "heroes, they've saved the world"; Jin Liqun from China Investment
Corporation (CIC) said he expected "2013 to have great results"; and Angela
Merkel, the German Chancellor, praised David Cameron.

Oleg Deripaska, the Russian metals billionaire, told The Sunday Telegraph:
"Everyone's more optimistic, there are no pessimists any more. It's a great
surprise for me."

On Wednesday the International Monetary Fund forecast that the global economy
would grow by 3.5pc this year.

Christine Lagarde pointed out that it was a 10pc increase on last year's growth
rate. But the IMF head added that the world was entering a new economic era
characterised by "a reallocation of political and economic power" around the
globe. "We will get beyond the crisis. But more than that, I believe we are in
the antechamber of a new global economy," she said.

"Talk to people here, in the various sessions, they will tell you that they are
more positive - that has a viral effect," said Natarajan Chandrasekaran, boss of
Tata Consulting Services, part of India's $100bn Tata Group. "On Monday, back at
work, they will say, 'things are looking up, what can I do to participate?'"

So is the end of the bitter winter of the mighty financial crisis finally here?
Could this really be the start of the big thaw? Or just a desperate, but
baseless, hope for change?

For some in Davos, the optimism was only relative to last year's meeting. Twelve
months ago, the leaders and tycoons had trudged to the small Swiss town in the
bleak blizzard of the eurozone crisis.

The mood was still sombre on Tuesday night as delegates arrived. The annual
report by the chief executive of PriceWaterhouseCooper, the traditional curtain
raiser to Davos, revealed declining confidence among business leaders. Another
report published by WEF and Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, warned that
there were still "perilous macroeconomic disequilibria that have plagued Europe
and especially the Eurozone".

On cue, fresh data from Madrid showed that Spanish unemployment had risen to a
record high of 26pc at the end of 2012, with 6m people out of work.

Even so, from the start leaders agreed that the advances in tackling the debt
crisis were undeniable and it was this that formed the foundation of the Davos
optimism. Ignazio Visco, the governor of the Bank of Italy, echoed Mr Jain in
describing Mr Draghi as a hero, while the coordinated actions of central banks
from the Federal Reserve to the Bank of England were also praised. Even Mrs
Merkel, a staunch opponent of expanding the ECB's mandate, agreed that it had
"done a lot".

Brian Moynihan, Bank of America's chief executive, argued that businesses had
had "six years of excuses" not to take risks, borrow or expand because of global
crises, particularly in Europe. He told of his surprise to find small-business
owners in Illinois "recounting in detail" the elections of each European country
- "they were fearful", he said. Now that was changing.

Despite criticism that European leaders have been glacial in their reactions,
there was recognition that their efforts had better equipped the eurozone to
cope both with crises and economic management. The ECB's new muscle, radical
structural reforms, and the emerging banking union were all cited as proof of
change.

Pierre Mosocvici, the French finance minister, said Europe had not had the
ability or tools to "rule an integrated financial system... but now we do."

There were also clear signs that European leaders wanted to keep pushing for
reform. Mr Cameron arrived in Davos having dropped the bombshell of a British
"in-out" referendum and then declared Europe was being "out-competed,
out-invested and out-innovated"

Even so plenty of leaders spoke out in support of the Prime Minister's vision
for a change of course on tax, corruption and trade, as well as Brussels.

Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Swedish prime minister, said: "We are very close in the
view that we need to increase competition and we need more free-trade agreements
with the growing parts of the world economy."

Mark Rutte, his Dutch counterpart, added: "I agree with David's comments in
terms of making the EU more efficient... and it is vital for us as the European
Union and for the UK that it stays part of the EU."

Even Mrs Merkel declined the invitation to attack him but agreed that Europe had
to adapt to maximise international trade.

Better still, there was confi-dence about pursuing a free trade deal with
America. Mr Cameron, who said the deal would add (EURO)50bn to the EU's GDP,
pledged to make it a G8 priority.

Enda Kenny, the Irish prime minister, added: "There is a signal that the
greatest trading bloc on earth, which is the EU, and the US can set out the road
map of how this will happen."

The dousing of the crisis in Europe has clearly quenched the flames that
threatened banks too. Banks have been a key benefici-ary of central bank action
around the world and also of improved credit and equity markets.

European bankers also admitted that their new structures and regulatory regime,
as well as that of their governments, had made them stronger. Deutsche's Mr Jain
said he was "optimistic based on two hopes".

The first was that the series of new regulation now passed would lead to a more
stable system. The second hope was that "government policy will now be truly
focused on GDP" rather than a "confusion" of other social and economic aims.

After a year of scandals, even UBS's boss Axel Weber was optimistic: "The
economy has turned. Most of the markets are picking up," he said. At Davos there
were grumbles about the undented arrogance of bankers. But there are signs that
the public and clients are moving on.

The annual Edelman Trust Barometer, unveiled at Davos, indicated that from a low
in 2012, trust in banks increased by 3pc, despite a series of scandals from
interest rate rigging to money laundering. There was a 5pc increase for
"financial services" generally.

It's good news for Britain and the City of London. But global leaders felt the
uptick too. Mr Weber said: "The China stock markets are strongly rebounding...
in countries like the US, growth is bottoming out.

"The major economies are recovering."

Ken Frazier, chief executive officer of pharmaceutical giant Merck, said, "The
US economy is poised to take off ... I think it's the strongest economy in the
world."

At Davos the power of the emerging economies was on display - most obviously in
the case of Russia which, as the new head of the G20, had big advertising
display boards across Davos and fielded a team headed by Dmitry Medvedev, the
prime minister.

The meeting was used to launch a marketing campaign by the $10bn Russia Direct
Investment Fund (RDIF), the country's first sovereign wealth fund.

Africa competed with Asia on the session schedules and Western firms reported a
dramatic increase in interest.

Mark Otty, Ernst&Young managing partner for Europe Middle East and Africa, said:
"We've never seen this level of interest in Africa. We created a tech platform
on Africa last year and 200 multinationals came to look at it - all wanting to
develop their strategies for Africa."

The optimism was clear in davos but so was its fragility. The thaw may have
started but it's far from sunny beyond the slopes. "Super" Mario Draghi,
chairman of the ECB, said the "jury was still out" on whether his efforts were
enough to bring a lasting recovery.

He admitted that the improvement in financial markets has not yet been
"transmitted to the real economy." At Davos technology firms and internet
entrepreneurs were clearly enjoying rapid growth, but few other manufactures and
engineers shared their optimism. There was excitement about the opportunities of
shale gas - economists at IHS Global Insight said the industry had created 1.7m
jobs - but experts said it would take years to develop.

WPP's Sir Martin Sorrell said the decline was more fundamental: "We (in the
West) are becoming less entrepreneurial. China is becoming more
entrepreneurial," he said.

Ken Rogoff, the economist, was dismissive of the optimism. He said. "If you
don't have the growth, how can you say the debt problem is over?" Others joined
Dr Doom in warning that central bank money-printing had created another bubble
ready to burst. But overall leaders in Davos were insistent: the global
financial system finally has a solid floor on which businesses everywhere can
rely.

"Think of it as walking on ice that isn't too secure," said Muhtar Kent, chief
executive of Coca Cola. "But, I think, everyone expects the ice to hold."

We will get beyond the crisis. I believe we are in the ante-chamber of a new
economyChristine Lagarde Head of the International Monetary Fund

Eurozone tail-risks and strains are lower but economic problems remain chronic
Nouriel Roubini New York University economist

1.7m Number of jobs created by the shale gas industry

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: China's continued economic strength was one of the reasons for optimism
about the prospects for 2013, but some delegates in Davos, including Sir Martin
Sorrell, from WPP, warned that the West was becoming less entrepreneurial while
China was becoming more entrepreneurial
Delegates at the World Economic Forum, including Charlize Theron, left, were
given clear indications of the strength of emerging economies. Russia led the
way with an advertising campaign to promote the launch of the country's first
sovereign wealth fund, valued at $10bn
SINOPIX/REX FEATURES, AFP/GETTY IMAGES & MARTIN POPE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WEAK POUND, BIG PROFITS;
Sterling is falling and could have further to go as Britain's rivals recover.
How can investors benefit, asks Emma Wall

BYLINE: Emma Wall

SECTION: MONEY AND JOBS;BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words


The value of sterling took a tumble last week - and could keep falling if
currency forecasters are to be believed.

While it won't be welcomed by holidaymakers, the pound's fall offers
opportunities for investors prepared to bet on foreign shares - or even, more
riskily, funds that invest directly in currencies. It should also help British
companies that sell overseas.

Several of the FTSE 100's biggest names, including Unilever, BP and Experian,
pay dividends in foreign currency - and these payments rise in sterling terms
when the pound falls.

Experts suggested that investors consider rebalancing their portfolios to give
greater exposure to funds that back overseas markets such as America and Europe.
Again, these assets should hold their value better for British investors when
sterling falls.

The British currency fell to an eight-month low against the dollar in recent
days, weakened by David Cameron's announcement of a potential referendum on
Britain's membership of the European Union.

But even before the Prime Minister distanced Britain from the recovering
Continent, naysayers were talking down the pound.

Last month, David Bloom, HSBC's head of foreign exchange strategy, described
sterling as "the ugliest out of the three ugly sisters" - her siblings being the
dollar and the euro.

John Stopford, head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management, said:
"Sterling is in the process of losing its safe-haven status," His concerns
include Britain's reliance on imports and the Government's continued
overspending.

Andy Scott of foreign exchange brokers HiFX said: "With the Government
struggling to meet its deficit reduction target and the economy failing to
maintain any growth, the economic situation remains a huge concern and this is
manifesting itself in a weaker pound.

"With the potential for credit rating downgrades and more quantitative easing
from the Bank of England with the economy faltering, it's unlikely there will be
a resurgence of buying interest in the pound any time soon."

All three of the main credit rating agencies - Moody's, Standard & Poor's and
Fitch - have put the UK under threat of a downgrade.

While Britain's prospects worsen, the forecasts for Europe and the US have
improved. Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, expects the
continent's economy to "gradually recover" in 2013.

The one blip on the US radar, the fiscal cliff, has been delayed until March.
But recent positive developments for the US, and therefore the dollar, have been
cheaper fuel, thanks to new means of extracting oil and gas, population growth
and job creation.

The British government will do little to stop our currency depreciating: while
it spells bad news for holidaymakers and makes imports more expensive, cheap
sterling is good for the economy.

It encourages foreign investment into the UK, makes our exports better value and
creates inflation. And that helps to erode the national debt, assisting the
Chancellor, George Osborne, to achieve his targets.

Some analysts are predicting that sterling will fall by as much as 20pc in 2013.

"We expect the pound to struggle against both the dollar and euro over the
months ahead," said Mr Gardiner. "While stronger fundamentals favour the dollar,
the euro should benefit from a central bank more prepared to raise rates and
funds returning to the region. And all this should be magnified by falling
demand for the pound as a safe-haven destination."

Nik Stanojevic, equity analyst for Brewin Dolphin, said investors wishing to
profit from a depreciating pound should opt for stocks that pay dividends in
euros or dollars.

He tipped BHP Billiton, Deutsche Telekom, Inmarsat, Experian, Unilever and BP.

"BHP Billiton has a progressive dividend policy and was able to maintain the
dividend even through the worst part of the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009.
It reports and sets its dividend in US dollars," he said. "Deutsche Telekom has
significant exposure to the dollar through its US mobile business, which we
believe could grow substantially over the next three years. It pays its dividend
in euros."

Equity funds investing in the US and European markets will receive dividends
from the underlying companies in their local currencies. If you buy a
sterling-priced share class these dividends will usually then be translated by
the fund house into sterling, which is the currency you'll receive the income
in. If the pound is weak against these currencies, your income will be greater.

Brewin Dolphin tipped the JPM US Equity Income and Aviva US Equity Income funds.
"In Europe, we prefer the Standard Life European Equity Income fund, which aims
to deliver a sustainable level of income as well as capital appreciation," said
Brewin Dolphin fund analyst Andrew Johnston.

"Although half of the portfolio will be allocated to high-yielding dividend
stocks, the remainder will be invested in companies based on their dividend
growth and dividend upgrade potential, a feature that differentiates it from
many of its peers."

Alternatively, you could opt for direct currency trading investments. "One way
to bet against sterling is the Threadneedle Dollar Bond fund," said Brian
Dennehy of FundExpert.co.uk.

"Another, where you aren't dependent just on the US dollar exchange rate, is the
M &G Global Macro Bond fund. This is already moving towards the top of the very
shortterm league tables for this sector, and we are very keen."

Schroder's Global Managed Currency fund has broader exposure to different
currencies. "Sterling only makes up 5pc of this fund," said manager Clive
Dennis. "So essentially you are shorting the pound for 95p in every £1. It is a
varied basket of currencies, so if you do not want to make an investment call
just on the dollar to pound exchange rate, it is a good option."

Advisers say currency funds are high-risk and should only ever make up a
fraction of a balanced portfolio.

WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR HOLIDAYMAKERS?

Going away this summer? If the analysts are to be believed you won't be getting
much bang for your British buck abroad by then. Rather than cashing in your
pounds now and stashing the euros under the mattress, you could consider a
"stoploss order". Foreign exchange companies such as Moneycorp will allow you to
set a minimum level at which you will buy or sell currency in advance. This is
called a stop-loss order. Your exchange order will be fulfilled automatically if
this rate is reached in the markets. Effectively, this guarantees a minimum rate
at which your currency will be exchanged.

'Sterling is in the process of losing its safe haven status'

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOWARD MCWILLIAM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 147 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK THAT WAS

BYLINE: JAKE WALLIS SIMONS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 236 words


ROYAL RUMPUS

Prince Harry's homecoming from Afghanistan was marred by controversy as
interviews were broadcast in which he appeared to show a blasé attitude to
killing, comparing firing from his Apache helicopter to playing computer games.

Paul Emsley, who painted the Duchess of Cambridge's portrait, said he had been
the victim of a "witch-hunt" over his "rotten" painting. He has been accused of
giving the Duchess a look akin to "an undertaker's makeover".

THE EUROPEAN QUESTION

The Prime Minister announced that he would offer the British people an "In/Out
referendum" on the European Union by 2017, should the Conservatives be returned
to power in the next election. This seemed to throw Labour into disarray; Ed
Miliband declared that he opposed the idea, only to be contradicted by his own
party hours later. Nick Clegg asserted that Mr Cameron's plan is "not in the
national interest". Ukip's Nigel Farage said parts of the speech were like
"stand-up".

LUNCH WITH THE PRESIDENT

Barack Obama was inaugurated as US President for the second time. The cost of
the ceremony is not yet known, but it seems certain to outstrip the $173 million
spent on the last one. Obama's 11-year-old daughter, Sacha, was caught yawning
and Beyoncé was caught lip-synching. The three-course "surf 'n' turf" luncheon
held 3,027 calories - 527 more than the NHS's recommended daily allowance for an
average adult male.

JAKE WALLIS SIMONS

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jaws of death: a young penguin meets its fate in the form of a leopard
seal, second only to the orca among Antarctic predators
AMOS NACHOUN/BARCROFT MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
