
                               1 of 122 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           December 21, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Fix borders or I'll block new EU countries;
Cameron's vow on immigrants

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 398 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday threatened to stop new countries joining the EU unless
stricter immigration controls were introduced. The Prime Minister's shock veto
bombshell came after a tense Brussels summit between member leaders.

Mr Cameron claimed the right to work anywhere in the EU was being abused by
immigrants on benefits.

He said "vast migrations" of Eastern Europeans had been a disaster and needed to
be checked before any new countries were allowed in.

Turkey, Macedonia, Serbia, Albania and Bosnia are all looking to join but Mr
Cameron said new members "don't happen unless everybody agrees".

He added: "So you have a real opportunity, irrespective of treaty change, to
insist on a different approach."

The Prime Minister wants a new treaty to regain power over our borders before
Britain holds a referendum on EU membership in 2017.

He raised his concerns with leaders during talks yesterday morning over Serbia
and Albania joining.

The Tory leader said that without new controls he would refuse to allow
countries in. After the summit he said EU founders had not envisaged the
introduction of new countries would trigger "mass population movement".

Mr Cameron said: "We must find a way to slow down access to each other's labour
markets until we can be sure it will not cause vast migrations. We need to
return the principle of free movement to a more sensible basis and make it clear
that it cannot be a completely unqualified right.

"We must return it to what the EU first envisaged: the free movement of workers
ready to work hard and get on in life, not the free movement of those after the
best benefit deal."

Mr Cameron said Germany, Austria and Holland had agreed that abuse of the system
had to be tackled.

He added that Britain needed to learn from the past and said: "I think the
mistake the last Government made of giving unfettered immediate access to the UK
labour markets by Poland, Hungary and the Baltic member states in one go was a
huge mistake.

"When a country joins you are able to put in place transitional controls. When
that happens we need to look very carefully at what kind of controls we put in
place. It may be necessary to make new mechanisms, the percentage of GDP or the
rates of wages."

He said vast movements of people did not have the public's support and added
that some cases had "not been brilliant for the countries concerned".

tom.mctague@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREAT PM after summit yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 122 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Cameron all wrapped up with Chinese

BYLINE: JOHN PRESCOTT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 278 words


Christmas has come early for Cameron, even though he's not been a good boy. But
it's not Santa who's bestowing gifts. It's another red giant - China.

First he got the Chinese to pay for our new nuclear plants. Now it looks like
he'll get that train set, with China willing to invest in HS2.

Throw in a deal for 100,000 Jaguar Land Rover cars and you can see why Cameron's
now giving greater priority to trade.

On his visit to China in 2011 he said human rights was his greatest priority. He
followed it up with a political meeting with the Dalai Lama to talk about Tibet.
It led to a deep freeze in relations and snubs from Beijing.

Now he's woken up to the fact that he needs China. I was head of the China Task
Force for many years. In 1997 the Foreign Office gave me a list of human rights
cases I was to raise on a visit.

I argued it was rich to lecture China when Britain's colonial history was full
of breaches of civil and human rights.

However I did raise human rights, especially the case of a Chinese journalist
jailed for disclosing information about China's gold reserves. He was released
three months later.

I got one journalist out of jail but Cameron couldn't even keep one in his Press
conference!

Cameron is now offering to export our banking expertise and become a champion
for China in the EU. He is advocating a referendum to leave Europe and come out
of - yes, you guessed - the European Court of Human Rights.

Our private banks contributed to a world financial crisis while the publicly
owned Chinese ones finance growth 10 times greater than the West.

The Chinese have nothing to learn from Cameron but we have everything to gain
from closer links with them.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Back and forth: David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Pack it in, Cameron

BYLINE: FIONA PARKER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 878 words


Why waste money on plain packaging for cigarettes? Smokers buy their usual brand
not for the colour or design. Changing the packet will not deter anyone.

M Williams, Bangor, North Wales

The smoking industry's control of Government policy regarding packaging isn't
the only area of control. Smoking on TV is insidious.

Where once only weak characters were portrayed as smokers, it now seems
obligatory to have to watch people puffing away.

They could argue that it sets the scene in retrospective dramas such as Ripper
Street, Dancing on the Edge, Peaky Blinders, Foyle's War, Endeavour, George
Gently and Mr Selfridge. But that is not the case in modern dramas such as
Lewis, Last Tango in Halifax, Lightfields, Stella, Scott and Bailey, Jack
Taylor, The Town and many more!

It is everywhere by example and there is no excuse for it.

Lynda Davies, Birmingham

So Cameron's government is backtracking on a decision not to put cigarettes in
plain packets.

Why don't you just make your mind up one way or another, and then stick to it?
After all, you are supposed to be leader of this country, aren't you? It appears
as if money is more or less the final decision maker when putting any of these
Tory-led plans into place. We were once a proud nation - not any more!

Andrea Jones Westminster, SW London

So the Prime Minister is going to get cigarettes packaged in plain boxes, what a
great gift for counterfeiters.

They won't have to bother faking the package as well as the cigarettes. Has
anyone in power ever asked young people why they start smoking and when they
started?

Masses of cigarettes and tobacco products are smuggled into the UK every day,
this plain packing ruling will only help.

We all know cigarette smoking is harmful, it can kill, yet it is not illegal to
smoke. Is it the tax and the revenue accrued by all governments or is it a
simple fact that it may well be impossible to curtail?

Tom Murray Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Now it is plain labelled cigarettes again, wow!

We have the only whirling dervish prime minister in the world. I am sure Cameron
will do yet another U-turn on the promised in/out EU referendum, nearer the
delayed date, and this will happen if he is re-elected. But is there much chance
of that happening? I very much doubt it!

John LA Page, Lincolnshire

What on earth is this so-called Government playing at? They say one thing and
then do another - they can never seem to make up their minds.

They are making themselves out to look like idiots. They need to make a final
decision then stick to their guns - show some backbone.

It seems as though they have many people in the background influencing what they
say and do.

Putting cigarettes into plain packets will not solve anything, in fact it will
probably just make things worse for this once prospering country, since
counterfeiters will have a much easier job of getting rid of their stock!

Jacqueline Brown, Reading, Berks

I totally disagree with the plans to put cigarettes into plain packets as many
customers are of an older generation and, as like me, enjoy going into their
local store and looking as well as pointing out their favourite brand to the
cashier.

It will just create a whole heap of confusion within the retail market.

Why can't this Government leave well alone and put their efforts into other
issues higher on the agenda, such as funding for all us pensioners who are going
to suffer the cold this winter through not being able to afford our heating
bills?

Larry Williams, North London

My heart goes out to all the people and their families involved in Friday's
helicopter crash in Glasgow. I especially felt for John McGarrigle Jnr whose
father was killed as he supped a pint while he sat in "his" spot. RIP you lovely
people. There are some more stars in the sky now.

Allan Day, Basingstoke, Hants

Boris Johnson's elitist rambling has provided a valuable spur for right-minded
people to vote the Tories out at the next election. It may be an idea to remind
Boris that some of our most successful captains of industry have no formal
qualifications.

D Barker, Leeds

This Government wants to get off its backside and go and look at the
poverty-stricken, needy, penniless people of Britain! There are food banks
setting up all over Britain, and even the Red Cross are saying that it's the
worst needy, situation they have seen in the UK. This is an absolute disaster!

David Walters, Gwent

Power company npower is shedding jobs in this country and moving part of its
business to India, where it can generate even more money for its shareholders by
paying lower wages.

This goes back to Margaret Thatcher and her policy to privatise companies to
make money for her Tory rabble and leave the working families of Britain to
struggle to pay their bills. Roll on 2015 when the people of this country will
hopefully vote to rid us of these Coalition parasites. Stan Gray, Blackhall
Colliery, Co Durham the people of this country will hopefully vote to rid us of
these Coalition parasites.

Stan Gray, Blackhall Colliery, Co Durham

The BIG issue

DAVID Cameron is set to resurrect plans for plain cigarette packets in a
dramatic U-turn. The Prime Minister earlier dismayed health groups by shelving
the policy after taking on tobacco lobbyist Lynton Crosby as an election
adviser. Here are your views...

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PM'S CURB OF EU MIGRANTS WON'T WORK;
'Nasty' move against Romanians will fail, No10 admits

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 318 words


DOWNING Street admitted last night that the Prime Minister's new plans to try
and curb EU migrants are flawed.

David Cameron's raft of pledges came under attack from all sides with European
Union chiefs saying they would make the UK look "a nasty country".

His changes will also be implemented too late to stop Romanian and Bulgarian
workers entering Britain.

Under the scheme, EU migrants will be banned from claiming any benefits for the
first three months. After that, any welfare payments will be based on a minimum
earnings threshold, which is still to be announced.

But No10 revealed that the bulk of these ideas would not be in place by January
1, when restrictions on Bulgarians and Romanians wanting to move to the UK are
lifted.

Laszlo Andor, the EU Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion,
told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "The British public has not been given the
full truth about this subject. The unilateral rhetoric is not helpful as it
risks presenting the UK as a nasty country."

Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper said that Labour had called for stronger
restrictions on new arrivals from the EU months ago.

m m She said: "The Government dismissed our plc proposals - eight months later
and they have changed their minds."

Labour accused the PM of rushing out the measures in a move to head off a Tory
backbench revolt.

Pmhb A source said: "Mr Cameron was facing a very large Tory rebellion over
immigration this Christmas so he panicked and cobbled this together."

The plans failed to satisfy the Tory Right who continued to call for the
restrictions on Romania and Bulgaria to remain in place until 2018.

Tory Steve Barclay said: "I am calling on the Government to extend restrictions
until after an EU referendum."

jason.beattie@mirror.co.uk

VOICE OF THE MIRROR: PAGE 8

The British public has not been given the full truth on this subject LASZLO
ANDOR EU COMMISSIONER, YESTERDAY

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLAWED Mr Cameron's plans were attacked by Ms Cooper

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Rebel's Euro poll bid flops

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 84 words


EUROSCEPTIC Adam Afriyie was humiliated yesterday when his bid to force an
in/out EU referendum next year was backed by just 15 of his Tory chums.

Mr Afriyie's amendment to a Tory-backed bill guaranteeing a referendum by 2017
would have move the Brussels poll to 2014. He thinks delaying it could cost the
Tories the next election, but he lost by 234 votes.

Former World Trade Organisation head Pascal Lamy yesterday warned the British
people they would be "shooting themselves in the foot" if they left the EU.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 21, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

See the light, cyclists;
Edited by Letters FIONA PARKER

BYLINE: FIONA PARKER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 847 words


FOR some reason cyclists think that they have the right of way at traffic
lights, road junctions, and controlled crossings.

Some think that lights, helmets and high vis clothing does not apply to them,
but when they overtake an articulated truck on the near side that is signalling
to turn left, the driver of the truck is the man who gets the blame.

I know - I was a Class 1 HGV driver for over 35 years.

The police need to take more notice of these cyclist road hogs.

Jim Teggart Stockport, Gtr Manchester

If cyclists choose to ride without a helmet, lights or without reflective
clothing while on the roads in the dark the law has to be enforced.

It's just the same as motorists not wearing a seat belt or talking on a mobile.

KR Moreton, Derby

I write this from the perspective of a driver, cyclist and pedestrian.

Cyclists riding at speed on the pavement, riding the wrong way down one-way
streets and totally ignoring red traffic lights - I have witnessed all this
first hand.

If a driver collides with a cyclist he or she is automatically assumed to be in
the wrong. This is rarely the case. Circumstances must also be taken into
account and irresponsible cyclists must be prosecuted.

Tony Phipps, address supplied

Of course the recent deaths are a tragedy. However, before blaming drivers,
building more cycle lanes etc, isn't it about time the cyclists had to pass some
sort of test before they can ride on our roads?

Some sort of rider's licence should be put in place, similar to that of the
cycling proficiency test, carried out in some schools.

M Harris, Brockley, South London

As a motorist, I had a great deal of sympathy for those cyclists killed and
injured, until I spent two days in London last week.

I saw an accident - a cyclist went through a red light, the car coming past on
green just managed to stop, but the cyclist fell off in front of him, incurring
bumps and bruises, and a lot of swearing ensued.

The next day, another cyclist appeared via a side street, didn't look, in the
dark, with no lights and slid into the side of the car that was in front of us.
There was no serious injury, but one broken bike, one bruised, dazed cyclist and
a dented door, with yet more swearing.

Even in my home town I am amazed at the number of cyclists with no lights, no
protective head gear, no reflective clothing. They ignore bike lanes, they use
the footpath. You cannot hear them coming or, in the dark, see them.

Yes, in my car I am safe, but as a pedestrian crossing the road, or walking on
the pavement, I have no protection against cyclists.

Tom Murray Bury St Edmunds Suffolk

Most roads are the same width as when they were built for carriages.

Cars are getting wider and now have door mirrors which intrude into cycle lanes.
I have been knocked off my bike in a cycle lane by a door mirror, sustaining
injuries.

Why don't planners take the cycle lanes on to the pavement, separated from
pedestrians by a kerb?

Matt Mills, Torquay

I see another cyclist has died on London's road. Maybe if every cyclist stopped
at red traffic lights there wouldn't be so many deaths. Even the London Mayor
has been snapped jumping the lights.

Gary Kibble, Welling, Kent

How much has Cameron's farce junket in Sri Lanka cost the tax payer? The
toothless British Bulldog was practically laughed out of the country. Stay here
and sort us out before you try to tell other countries about their human rights,
Mr Cameron. What about our old people, our sick and our ailing health service?

R Kendle, Harlow, Essex

It is shocking that CO2 emissions are higher than ever, despite all the
conferences and promises (Mirror, November 19).

When it comes down to it, most people are not prepared to vote for higher fuel
bills and an end to cheap air travel. But something has to be done to prevent
disaster.

Therefore, the only realistic solutions are to remove carbon from the atmosphere
- through carbon scrubbing or by planting huge forests - or to cool the planet
through geo-engineering.

Come on David Cameron, work with other world leaders and make this happen, and
finally you will have met your promise to lead "the greenest government ever".

R Mountford, Tonbridge, Kent

Once again the pensioners who have served this country excellently are the
target of some think tank - no doubt made up of wealthy people.

These people have no sense of justice and forget the service these pensioners
have done for their country. Think tanks of this type must be abolished.

P Walsh, Knowle, Bristol

Immigration has been a boon for the rich, supplying cheap labour without the
worry of unions or pensions or the like. A job for life is mostly a thing of the
past.

The Labour party, once the champions of the working class seems happy with cheap
foreign labour, and the unions also. How in a democracy can this happen? we need
a referendum on the EU now.

Dick Waring, Portsmouth

The BIG issue

A Mirror investigation found cyclists flouting road rules by riding without
lights in the hours of darkness in six cities, with many risking their lives by
riding without helmets while wearing headphones and dark clothing.

You have mixed views...

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Paper planes thrown in EU debate farce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 79 words


AN EU referendum debate descended into silliness yesterday when MPs threw paper
planes at each other.

Bored backbenchers struck as Labour tried to "talk out" a bill paving the way
for a referendum on EU membership in 2017.

Tories accused Labour of trying to sabotage the legislation by tabling
amendments. But Ed Miliband said: "What we see today is the Conservative party
talking to itself about Europe."

Nissan warned it would reconsider its investment here if the UK left the EU.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TALK Labour leader Miliband

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MPs in paper plane fiasco

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 80 words


AN EU referendum debate descended into farce yesterday when MPs began throwing
paper planes at each other.

Bored backbenchers struck as Labour tried to "talk out" a bill paving the way
for a referendum on EU membership in 2017.

Tories accused Labour of trying to sabotage the legislation by tabling
amendments. But Ed Miliband said: "What we see today is the Conservative Party
talking to itself about Europe."

Nissan warned it would reconsider its investment here if the UK left the EU.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM: Support to stay in EU 'wafer thin'

BYLINE: GRAHAM HISCOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 112 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday told bosses that support for Britain remaining in Europe
is "wafer thin".

The PM warned the Confederation of British Industry's annual conference the EU
is "too costly" and inflexible.

Mr Cameron, who plans to hold a referendum on the UK's EU membership in 2017,
said: "It is my judgement that our current consent for remaining inside the EU
is wafer thin.

"We haven't made the argument enough about why Europe matters and there are lots
of things in the EU that need reform."

Mr Cameron also called for political consensus behind the £42billion HS2
high-speed rail link, warning that those who oppose the project are "putting our
country's future at risk".

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 4, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CASE TO STAY IN EU 'OVERWHELMING'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 158 words


BRITS are £1,125 better off every year by being in the EU and staying in is
"overwhelmingly" in our interests, business chiefs will claim today.

In total it adds £78billion to the economy, the Confederation of British
Industry will say. The group, which holds its conference in London today, also
dismissed Tory backbenchers' calls for Britain to develop a Swissstyle free
trade deal outside the EU. David Cameron is due to speak at the conference as
well as Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls, who will attack the PM's referendum pledge.

He will say: "Europe needs reform, but to walk away from the EU would be
reckless, foolish and deeply damaging." A No10 spokesman echoed calls for reform
and said: "The PM is clear that he is determined to get the EU working for
business."

Mr Cameron will use his speech to rally support for the £42.6billion HS2 rail
plan. He wants HS2 boss Sir David Higgins to detail how to cut costs ahead of a
Commons vote in March.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 4, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

£78bn bonus of being in EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 83 words


BEING in the EU means we are each £1,125 better off each year, business chiefs
will claim today.

It adds £78billion to the economy, the Confederation of British Industry will
say at its London conference.

David Cameron and Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls will speak. The PM will rally
support for the £42.6billion HS2 rail plan and Mr Balls will attack Mr Cameron's
EU referendum pledge.

Mr Balls intends to say: "Europe needs reform but to walk away from the EU would
be reckless, foolish and deeply damaging."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'We must end Euro fixation'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 82 words


DAVID Cameron must stop obsessing about Europe, Sir John warned yesterday.

Instead he should focus on "taxes, jobs, education and living standards".

The former PM also said he will be campaigning to stay in the EU ahead of a
proposed 2017 referendum.

He believes Britain will vote yes and "put to bed this dreary ancient argument
that we went into Europe under false pretences".

He added that the idea of an EU superstate is "as dead as Jacob Marley" in
reference to Dickens's Christmas Carol ghost.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 21, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Soames rant at Cam 'rival'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 67 words


TORY grandee Nicholas Soames hurled a four-letter tirade of abuse at an MP
touted to be a rival to David Cameron as leader.

Winston Churchill's grandson told Adam Afriyie in the Commons tea room: "You are
totally f****** disloyal, a f****** disgrace."

Millionaire MP Mr Afriyie, has demanded a referendum on Britain's EU membership
before the next election.

Mr Soames said: "I did swear but have no regrets."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 21, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Soames rant at Cam 'rival'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 85 words


TORY grandee Nicholas Soames hurled a four-letter tirade of abuse at an MP
touted to be a rival to David Cameron as leader.

Winston Churchill's grandson told Adam Afriyie in the Commons tea room: "You are
totally f****** disloyal, a f****** disgrace."

Mr Afriyie, wants a referendum on EU membership before the next election.

He replied to Mr Soames: "If you want a serious discussion, Nicholas, then I am
prepared to do so. But this isn't the way to go about it."

Mr Soames said: "I did swear but have no regrets."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             October 7, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TORIES AT WAR OVER EUROPE POLL...AGAIN;
Cam furious at plot for referendum next year

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 215 words


THE Tories were in fresh turmoil over the EU last night as rebel MPs plotted an
early referendum on British membership.

Backbencher Adam Afriyie revealed plans for a Commons vote to hold a Euro poll
next year, infuriating David Cameron. The PM has promised a referendum if the
Tories win the next election but self-made millionaire Mr Afriyie said voters
don't believe him.

Instead he wants to discuss in five weeks an amendment to fellow Tory James
Wharton's Bill for a 2017 referendum.

Mr Afriyie said: "We should have that referendum in 2014 and over 50% of the
population want that." The MP, who is seen as a possible leadership challenger
to Mr Cameron, added: "I think people will come round over the next few weeks
and realise somebody has got to give this option to the British people."

But a No10 spokesman said: "We will not allow this amendment to be passed under
any circumstances. The PM will not let it stand." Many Tory Eurosceptics
distanced themselves from Mr Afriyie.

Former Cabinet Minister Liam Fox said trying to amend the Bill would be "a gift"
to opponents. But UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who plans to stand for Parliament in
2015, said he would be "delighted" if Mr Afriyie succeeded.

Labour said it will decide how to vote when it sees the amendment.

jason.beattie@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHALLENGE Adam Afriyie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             October 7, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

6 As I predicted, David Cameron's [...]

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 115 words


6 As I predicted, David Cameron's European plot is blowing up in the Premier's
face.

Con MP Adam Afriyie finally spotted the glaring flaw in a guileless Premier's
cunning little referendum plan.

It was the Beast of Bolsover, Dennis Skinner, a fine reader of the political
game, who first clocked a Bill promising a vote in 2017 could be hijacked to
bring it forward to 2014.

So wrong-footed Dave will be dragooning his Tory troops into denying an early
referendum when the PM was gambling on www.plaudits.No wonder Afriyie, a
Cameronsceptic ambitious multi-millionaire, is known in Labour circles as Agent
Adam. Perhaps in Downing Street too, now he's pulling the pin out of the Tory
Euro grenade.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EU STEW Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             October 7, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tories revolt over EU poll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 79 words


TORY rebels are calling for an early referendum on Britain's EU membership.

Backbencher Adam Afriyie wants a Commons vote to hold the in/out poll next year
instead of 2017, as promised by David Cameron.

And he is tabling an amendment to the proposed bill, which will be discussed in
five weeks' time.

Self-made millionaire Mr Afriyie said voters don't trust the PM to deliver his
pledge.

He added: "We should have the referendum in 2014 - more than 50% of the
population want that."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             October 4, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour is in poll position ...but here's why Tories could win next election;
CAMERON'S VOTING GURU ON ED MILIBAND'S CHALLENGE

BYLINE: LORD ASHCROFT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 989 words


BILLIONAIRE Tory peer Lord Michael Ashcroft is an expert on polling.

He surveys tens of thousands of voters, particularly in the marginal seats that
decide elections. So his detailed findings are listened to on all sides of the
political divide.

Labour's Ed Miliband had a hugely successful conference. But today the Tory
pollster sends him a wake-up call: Cameron could still win...

From the moment the Lib Dems joined the Conservatives in coalition, the next
election was Labour's to lose. Half the people who had voted for Nick Clegg's
party, many of them wanting to keep the Tories out, went straight to Labour,
giving their new leader Ed Miliband a big head-start.

Worse, from David Cameron's point of view, Labour could still win outright with
a lower share of the vote. And the Lib Dems locked in this advantage by blocking
plans to make constituency boundaries fairer.

The trickle of Tory voters towards UKIP has made life even more difficult for
Cameron. And as I found in my recent poll of marginal seats, things look even
tougher for the Conservatives in key battlegrounds than they do nationally. The
bookies have Labour as firm favourites to return to government.

So why, as a Tory, do I think we are in for the closest election for 40 years?
And that we could see another term of Prime Minister Cameron? First, the choice
of PM. In my latest survey Cameron trounced Miliband when it came to
representing the UK, leading a team, and knowing what he wanted to achieve. Most
thought Cameron would perform better overall, and one in five Labour voters said
that even though they weren't satisfied with him they would rather see him in
the job than Ed Miliband.

Second, the economy. Things are starting to pick up, and my poll found voters
now more likely to be optimistic than pessimistic. They trusted Cameron and
Osborne to run things more than Miliband and Balls by a huge margin.

Third, Miliband is doing surprisingly little to address the worries people have
about his party. Most voters, including two fifths of those who would vote
Labour, fear the party would spend and borrow more than the country can afford,
and has not learned the right lessons from its time in government. And while the
coalition wants to cut benefit bills, Labour seems to oppose all the welfare
reforms, which are popular with a great majority of voters.

Miliband has decided to play to Labour's strengths. Voters are much more likely
to see Labour as the party that understands and cares about ordinary people.
That is why he talks about the cost of living. And he is on to something when he
says many hard-pressed people do not think the economy works for them.

If there is a recovery, they doubt they will have much to show for it. Some of
my earlier research revealed that many swing voters are what I described as
"Suspicious Strivers", who feel their situation is precarious and their hard
work does not bring the rewards it should. The battle for their votes will be
one of the most vital of the next two years.

It was striking that Cameron did not try to match specific policies, like the
fuel price freeze that were set out at the Labour conference. Labour have high
hopes for these ideas but I doubt they will transform many people's view of
Miliband. However much they like an idea in theory, for it to be effective they
also have to think the person whose idea it is has the clout to make it work.

The Tories have decided it is more important to show they can run the economy in
general - and that only by doing that properly will we see higher living
standards.

The Conservatives may score better when it comes to the big picture and making
tough decisions, but people want to hear more about how they and their families
will fare in Cameron's "land of opportunity".

Labour support in the marginals is no higher than it was two years ago, but
UKIP's poll rating has tripled. My poll found Labour 14 points ahead of the
Tories in these seats, by 43% to 29%, with the Lib Dems on 8% and UKIP on 11%.

In fact only a quarter of Conservative defectors say they will vote UKIP -
though that is little comfort to Tory MPs with tiny majorities.

But it's not just ex-Tory voters who want to give all the parties a kicking.
Many traditional Labour voters are also tempted to vote "none of the above".
Don't forget, UKIP came second in by-elections last year in Rotherham and
Middlesbrough.

And while Europe is not the most important issue for most potential UKIP voters,
it is for some - and as things stand only a Conservative government will give
them the in-out referendum they want.

This leaves Miliband with a dilemma. Will he match Cameron's referendum pledge,
taking the issue off the table but raising the possibility of Britain leaving
the EU under his premiership? Or refuse, giving Cameron a clear run at
Eurosceptic voters, but at the same time tempting the Tories to put Europe at
the centre of their campaign, when most voters want to hear about the economy
and public services? It's a big decision.

People in politics think of little else but for normal people the election is
ages away. As it looms into view, the question of how to vote will start to
matter more.

Those who say today that they will vote Labour will have to decide whether they
really trust the party with the public finances and whether they really want to
see Ed Miliband at Number 10.

Former Conservatives attracted to UKIP, whose votes could deny Cameron a second
term and put Labour in office, will ask themselves the same question.

Two years before the last election the polls pointed to a huge Tory majority -
and we know how that turned out. We are in for a fascinating campaign.

One in five Labour voters would prefer Cameron as PM to Mr Miliband LORD
ASHCROFT ON THE LABOUR LEADER'S STRUGGLE

Only a quarter of defecting Conservative voters say they will vote for UKIP LORD
ASHCROFT SAYS A SPLIT ON THE RIGHT IS EXAGGERATED

IN THE KEY MARGINAL SEATS...

LABOUR 43%

TORIES 29%

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

LAND OF HOPELESS TORIES;
TORY CONFERENCE IN MANCHESTER CAM'S BOASTS BLASTED 'EARN OR LEARN' PLAN

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE; TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1013 words


DELUDED David Cameron has been ridiculed for boasting yesterday that "the land
of hope is Tory".

The Prime Minister's stomach-churning line came as he lurched to the right by
warning under-25s to "earn or learn" - or lose their benefits.

During his party conference speech, he praised the exploits of his failing
Coalition government and begged for a second term at No10 so he could continue
his assault on the poor, while helping fatcat businesses.

But he offered no concrete proposals to help families struggling with rising
food, fuel and housing costs.

Labour leader Ed Miliband said: "David Cameron's speech shows he does not know
where to start in tackling the cost of living crisis facing Britain's
hardworking families." The majority of Mr Cameron's speech to his party faithful
in Manchester was an appeal for a majority Tory government at the next election
so he could "finish the job".

Labour vice-chairman Michael Dugher MP said: "There's a cost of living crisis
facing hard-working families, and he's got nothing to say about it.

"David Cameron's pledge to 'finish the job' shows how out of touch he really is.
Rather than standing up for hard-working people he has shown he always puts a
privileged few first, prioritising a tax cut for those earning over £150,000 a
year while everyone else pays more."

Mr Cameron promised to bring in tax cuts for families and companies, and warned
that Labour would wreck any economic recovery.

Outlining his right-wing agenda for the election in 2015, he said 16 to
25-year-olds could lose their housing benefit and jobseekers' allowance if they
refuse to study, train or find a job.

He said: "It's time for bold action here. We should give young people a clear,
positive choice - go to school; go to college; do an apprenticeship; get a job.

But just choose the dole? We've got to offer them something better than that.

"Let no one paint ideas like this as callous. So this is what we want to see:
everyone under-25 earning or learning."

Downing Street aides said the policy would not apply to anyone in care, and they
were still working out what it would mean for the 169,000 single mums under-25
getting housing benefit.

Wrapping himself in the language of Margaret Thatcher, Mr Cameron said he wanted
to build a "land of opportunity for all". He said the Conservative mission was
not just to fix the economy but to dismantle Labour's legacy and build an
American-style economy.

This saw him side with big business, including the energy firms making huge
profits at the expense of customers. Making a profit was not a "dirty word", Mr
Cameron said.

He admitted the last few years had been a "struggle" for families but suggested
the pain was worthwhile now the economy had turned a corner.

The PM dangled the prospect of more tax cuts if he wins the election and
attacked Labour's economic plans.

He even made a shameless bid to portray himself as a hero when he repeated his
slapdown of Russia's claim that Britain is just a "small island".

Business organisations praised the speech and Mr Cameron was given the
obligatory hug by his wife Samantha after the address. But campaigners said the
welfare reforms for under-25s would drive more people into poverty.

Grainia Long, chief executive of the Chartered Institute of Housing, slated the
move as unfair and "dangerous".

Alison Garnham, of the Child Poverty Action Group, said the speech rang hollow
in the light of the number of kids living below the breadline.

She said: "You can't build a land of opportunity for all on the ruins of a
million more children living in poverty - poverty is the enemy of opportunity.

"What was missing from the speech was a recognition that hard-working people
sometimes lose their jobs or give up work because of disability, illness or to
care for others and, crucially, that two-thirds of children in poverty are in
working families."

jason.beattie@mirror.co.uk

THE NHS

What Cameron said: "Some people said the NHS wasn't safe in our hands. Well, we
knew otherwise."

What he didn't say: He has broken pledges to increase funding above inflation
every year, A&E wards are in crisis and the leader of Britain's GPs is accusing
him of leading the NHS towards a catastrophe.

EUROPE

What Cameron said: Claiming to be winning allies in his fight to regain powers
from the EU, he vowed: "at the end of it, yes, we'll give the British people
their say in a referendum".

What he didn't say: His party is bitterly divided over Europe while Nigel Farage
and UKIP are stealing Tory votes - which could cost them the next election.

SCHOOLS

What Cameron said: "You don't help children succeed by dumbing down education.
You help by pushing them hard. Really raising standards means innovation,
choice. That's what Free Schools are all about."

What he didn't say: New schools can now be set up in Tory areas with taxpayers'
cash while poor areas face budget squeezes.

ECONOMY

What Cameron said: "We are beginning to turn the corner. We are not there yet,
not by a long way. Together we are clearing up the mess that Labour left."

What he didn't say: Since he came to power in 2010, national debt has risen from
£846billion to £1.2trillion and he'll borrow £150billion more than planned by
2015.

WELFARE

What Cameron said: "The system is unfair and unjust - and that's why we are
sorting it out. We've capped welfare. We've capped housing benefit. We've
insisted on new rules so that if you reject work, you lose benefits."

What he didn't say: He plans to cut further £10billion off benefits after the
election to reduce the deficit without raising taxes.

COST OF LIVING

What Cameron said: "We've heard Labour's ideas to help with the cost of living.
An energy promise they admitted 24 hours later they might not be able to keep.
It's all sticking plasters and quick fixes." What he didn't say: Under him,
inflation has outstripped pay rises, for 38 of last 39 months.

"There's a cost of living crisis and he's got nothing to say about it MICHAEL
DUGHER ON CAM'S HOLLOW SPEECH TO TORIES

"Some of these schemes we have seen are quite frankly morally wrong. DAVID
CAMERON ON JIMMY CARR'S TAX AVOIDANCE

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPEECH BABBLE Cameron and his daft slogan yesterday
SMILES WORSE Cam with wife Sam yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Boris spending more tax cash on spin than PM;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 269 words


LONDON Mayor Boris Johnson spends more on spin doctors and advisers than the PM.

He blows £1.57million a year on his spin team, compared to David Cameron's
£1.45million.

Last night he was accused of using taxpayers' cash to fund his bid to become
Prime Minister.

Labour Party chairman in Greater London, Len Duvall, said: "We know Boris has
ambitions for his next job, but it looks like he's using Londoners' cash to help
him."

Mr Johnson joked about his ambitions yesterday. He told delegates that he had
met French politician Alain Juppe who was mayor of Bordeaux at the same time he
was prime minister.

Mr Johnson said: "That's the kind of thing they do there. A good idea if you ask
me."

But in his speech, Mr Johnson also heaped praise on Mr Cameron as the "only
statesman in the European Union" capable of delivering a referendum on the EU.

Earlier, Mr Cameron said he would give a warm welcome to the London Mayor if he
stands as an MP at the 2015 General Election. He added: "My 'message to him is
'You're a brilliant Mayor of London, you've done a great job, you've got a lot
more to give to public life, and it would be great to have you back in the House
of Commons."

Asked if Boris could make a comeback at the next general election in 2015, the
PM said: e "Absolutely - but that's a matter for him.

"I think he needs to think about it. It's his plan. All I know is that he's a
massive asset to the country, a massive asset to the Conservative Party. We
could make a very strong team together, we do today."

'' It looks like he's using Londoners' money to help him become PM LEN DUVALL
LABOUR PARTY CHIEF IN LONDON e

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMAYOR Boris Johnson yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

No bark because Enda put poodles in Seanad;
MEP says watchdog needs teeth

BYLINE: ALANA FEARON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 479 words


A LEADING MEP has hit back at Government claims that the Seanad is "a watchdog
that only barks once every 50 years".

And Marion Harkin insisted that's because the Taoiseach has filled it with
poodles.

The Independent politician is calling on people to vote No to abolishing the
Upper House on Friday.

Branding the referendum a "blatant power grab", she warned the needless vote is
a symptom of the "creeping centralisation" sweeping the country.

Urging voters to see the bigger picture, she predicted we will look back in 20
years and regret destroying our democracy if they vote Yes.

Backing our Keep the Seanad campaign, Ms Harkin said: "I agree the Seanad isn't
fit for purpose at the minute but to get rid of it would be totally unacceptable
and I have no doubt people would look back and wonder 'what have we done?'

"Democracy isn't something that just continues of its own accord - it needs
proper structures.

"To scrap an institution that has been in place since pretty much the foundation
of the State just to save a bit of money is the worst kind of populism.

"The Government has come out all guns blazing saying the Seanad is an
ineffective watchdog because it only barks once every 50 years but that's
because Enda Kenny filled it with poodles."

Polls predict the Government will win the vote if campaigners can't persuade
people reform is the best option.

But speaking exclusively to the Irish Mirror, Ms Harkin warned our low
Corporation Tax rate could be one of the first things to go if the Yes camp
wins.

She revealed: "The power given to the Seanad in the Lisbon Treaty to help
prevent the imposition of unacceptable measures from the European Institutions
will be lost if it is abolished. We have a Government that said it was Labour's
way, not Frankfurt's but at the end of the day Frankfurt won and who's to say
the Coalition won't be persuaded or railroaded into changing our very valuable
low Corporation Tax rate?

"At the minute the Seanad has the power to stop that if the Dail tried but if it
was gone there would be nothing to stop the Government and we'd all pay the
price.

"A reformed, independent Upper House would prevent all that so how can we throw
those check and balances away like yesterday's papers? We simply can't afford
to."

More than 70% of legislation adopted here comes from Europe but no one is
scrutinising it - a vacuum that costs us millions in fines and legal fees.

Ireland has racked up 94 judgements for breaches of EU laws since 1980, which Ms
Harkin believes could be prevented with a reformed Seanad.

She added: "Getting rid of a few senators may give some brief satisfaction to
many but this debate is not about individuals.

"It is about the Seanad as an institution and its role and potential for
protecting Ireland's interests and enhancing a very fragile but immensely
valuable commodity - our democracy."

alana.fearon@trinitymirror.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Marion Harkin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

I accept that my party failed to perform on the Seanad..we need to challenge the
Government..;
FF'S MICHEAL MARTIN CALLS FOR NO VOTE ON REFERENDUM

BYLINE: ALANA FEARON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1438 words


MICHEAL Martin has admitted his party failed by not reforming the Seanad during
Fianna Fail's 14 years in power.

But the Cork-born party leader has revealed he has been so disturbed watching
the Government "abuse" its record Dail majority to ram through unpopular
legislation, such as the property tax, that he would be terrified of a system
without the Upper House.

And accusing Fine Gael and Labour of "playing a dangerous game" with their
"cynical" campaign to abolish the Seanad, the former minister warned we would be
left with the weakest parliament in Europe if we vote to scrap it on October 4.
Speaking exclusively to the Irish Mirror as part of our Keep The Seanad
campaign, Deputy Martin revealed: "Every party has failed to perform on the
Seanad and I accept that criticism. Every party has failed to grasp the nettle
of genuine parliamentary reform, not just the Seanad but the Dail as well.

"The last two-and-a-half years caused me to reflect a lot because I've witnessed
how the Government has abused its record majority, and in a situation where
governments have a huge majority you definitely need an Upper House that's
independent and can really challenge them.

"I saw how the property tax was rammed through, it was rammed through in 24
hours, and all because they were afraid of losing any backbench deputies.

"Labour made a very solemn promise before the election that they wouldn't
entertain cuts to child benefit but roll onto the Welfare Bill last year when it
was cut and again it was rammed through without any amendments."

And the popular Fianna Fail leader warned the power-grab would get even worse if
the Seanad was abolished.

He revealed: "If you get rid of the Seanad, you're just going to give more and
more of that kind of power to the Government and that's the danger for the
people.

"Some 52 Bills were rammed through and people might say previous parties did it
too but not to the same extent as this and not on such sensitive topics as the
property tax, child benefit cut and respite care grant cuts.

"Last week they announced Dail reform for the third or fourth time and that's
the sum total of what they're prepared to do.

"They didn't even consult with a single Opposition deputy and I'd say even a
Government deputy before they did so that's the sincerity of their attention
around an independent parliament that can hold Government to account.

"We've learned lessons from the crisis and one of those lessons is that we need
more oversight, not less. e need a parliament that is Windependent of the
Government and that can challenge the Government and its agencies, the Central
bank, the financial regulator and hold them to account.

"And my worry is that a Yes vote will copper-fasten a situation where power will
be concentrated exclusively in the hands of ministers.

"If the Seanad is abolished we will be left with the weakest parliament in
Europe under the complete control of ministers with a very weak system of local
government and it will be unique in the world in terms of lack of
accountability."

Campaigners for a No vote in the Seanad referendum have claimed the Government
is using the campaign to distract people from the misery and hardship that is to
come in next month's Budget.

But while he accepted it was a devious attempt to make voters take their eyes
off the ball, Deputy Martin also slammed the Government for taking its eye off
the ball when the country is on its knees.

He said: "Richard Bruton is the Minister for Jobs. We have a jobs crisis here
and for the past month and for the next few weeks he is 100% on this referendum
campaign. One would have to question that. A very senior minister in a very
senior economic portfolio and his number one concern is this referendum.

I think that's a big mistake.

"The Taoiseach had the next two years to do this because it's not as if they'd
be getting rid of it tomorrow but he chose to do this the month before the
Budget and he has squeezed it into a very narrow timeframe. So there is without
question an attempt to make this the big issue and then we're into the Budget
and out the other side."

Fianna Fail have been criticised for changing their position on the Seanad as
they said they would support abolition before they were slaughtered at the polls
in 2011.

But while admitting his party had swapped camps, their leader revealed they were
entitled to change their views in light of the disturbing power-grab they have
witnessed since Fine Gael and Labour came into power.

Deputy Martin revealed: "Before the last election we did say - but we qualified
it very strongly - that if there was fundamental reform of the relationship
between the Dail and the Government then we could facilitate the abolition of
the Seanad but it was conditional on very radical reform happening which simply
hasn't happened.

"Then add to that the two-and-a-half years we've now experienced with the huge
majority the Government has and you put the two together and now we're seeing we
need to stand back KEEP and look at this again and irrespective of who's in
power, we believe a second house is now essential.

"The Dail was the number one chamber that needed reform but the Government has
avoided that because they don't want to in any way undermine their authority or
the control they have and the abolition of the Seanad is a power-grab in that
sense.

"They were shamed into it this week in terms of speaking rights for Independent
TDs but that illustrates how the Government has so much control that it's
actually in the position to deny elected parliamentarians a voice."

And he claimed if the Coalition was serious about genuine, meaningful reform of
our political system, it would have started with the Dail.

Mr Martin added: "It's even more critical to reform the Dail in my view and we
failed to do that and I accept that but we did say before the last General
Election we had learnt the lessons of the crisis and applying those lessons
means we need a different political system but nothing has happened to change
the way Ireland is governed.

"Not one single power has been conceded by the Government to the Dail so I think
there has been a betrayal by Fine Gael and Labour of the people on the issue of
political reform."

Like all those in support of keeping the Seanad and reforming it, the Fianna
Fail chief accused the Government of purposely leaving reform off the ballot
paper because it is afraid.

He told the Irish Mirror: "The Government has deliberately decided not to give
the people that choice and the Government wanted to narrow down the choice that
people had.

"If they lose, it will be a very serious message to them but my worry is if it's
a Yes vote they will just clap their hands with glee and decide not to do
anymore and continue to hit people on lower incomes and do it with more
authority because there'll only be one chamber."

Fianna Fail are supporting a reformed Seanad reduced to 51 members with 41
directly elected by the people and the remaining 10 specifically reserved for
minority voices.

Scrutiny of legislation from the Dail would remain its main role but it would
take the lead in probing EU legislation and championing North/South links.

And for Deputy Martin, the debate and expertise the Seanad has to offer are the
"lifeblood" of our democracy.

He said: "It allows voices that aren't hamstrung by party whips and who can add
something to the public debate and I think if you reform it you'll get much more
of that.

"The Government has the numbers in the Dail, there's no point denying that and
I'm not going to pretend that I can force Government backbenchers to support
something we're in favour of but I do believe we should never understate the
voice of the people."

Urging people to vote No on October 4, Deputy Martin stressed abolishing the
Seanad won't save this Government a single cent. He revealed: "It's
(EURO)14million we're spending on this referendum and there will be no change
until 2016 and then you have pensions and expenses in relation to abolition but
in the meantime you're taking (EURO)14million out of public services."

The Government has no idea how much scrapping the Seanad would actually save, a
senior Oireachtas employee has said.

In official correspondence between the Government and the independent Referendum
Commission, it was revealed that top financial experts can't put a figure on
potential savings.

news@irishmirror.ie If you get rid of the Seanad you're just going to give more
power to the Government The Taoiseach had the next two years to do this but
chose to do it the month before the Budget If the Seanad is abolished we will be
left with the weakest parliament in Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: READY FOR BATTLE Fianna Fail leader Micheal Martin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 16, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ED'S SIGHTS ON EU

BYLINE: Kevin Maguire

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 157 words


WITH the bedroom tax destined to join zero hours contracts on Ed Miliband's hit
list, will a European referendum complete a votewining triumvirate?

My snouts mutter Miliband's mulling over how hard to slam the door on the
bedroom tax in tomorrow week's speech to the Labour faithful in Brighton.

The betting is Mili will leave it slightly ajar so it'd apply only in rare cases
where a single person in a big house refused to take on a smaller place. He took
a speech J Ed Miliband similar line at the TUC with zero hours, denouncing the
widespread use of exploitative contracts without arguing he'd outlaw them
completely.

Promising a European referendum alongside decent working conditions and council
tenancies wouldn't be a bad platform.

I'm told not to expect a Euro announcement in next week's speech.

If and when he takes the plunge, he'd be a step nearer No 10.

The Euro catch is, a short-term election vote winner is a longer term headache.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPEECH Ed Miliband

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 13, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Scrapping the Sean nad will END democracy in Ireland;
VOTE NO ON OCTOBER FOURTH ; FORMER TANAISTE LEADS CHARGE TO SAVE UPPER HOUSE

BYLINE: ALANA FEARON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1238 words


THE campaign to abolish the Seanad is a "bogus" referendum that will rob people
of the chance to hold the Dail to account.

And Seanad supporters have accused the Government of pedalling a campaign of
lies in a cynical attempt to hoodwink the electorate into giving them absolute,
unfettered power.

With less than a month until the country goes to the polls to vote on the
survival of the Upper House, No vote campaigners have warned that voting to
scrap it will spell the end of democracy in Ireland.

And for the next three weeks, a special Irish Mirror "Keep the Seanad" campaign
will highlight exactly why we need reform rather than abolition.

Instead of the "powerless, elitist" second chamber Taoiseach Enda Kenny and his
Yes vote supporters have portrayed, we will prove that the Seanad is an
invaluable link in our chain of democracy.

And, despite government claims that scrapping the Upper House will save
taxpayers (EURO)20million, we can reveal the true figure is just
(EURO)6.5million or (EURO)1.60 per person every year - the equivalent of a pint
of milk.

Abolition was at the core of Fine Gael's General Election campaign and is a key
element of the Programme for Government they have refused to abandon. But
campaign group Democracy Matters - who are canvassing for a No vote in the
referendum and advocating radical reform instead of abolition - are vowing this
is a battle the Government won't win.

The group, founded by former Tanaiste Michael McDowell, Senators Katherine
Zappone and barrister Noel Whelan and Prof Gary Murphy from Dublin City
University, said our broken system has failed Ireland.

They have attracted some heavyhitters like Mary O'Rourke and Labour Government
senators John Whelan and John Kelly.

And rather than scrapping the Seanad, they argue that the only way forward is a
reformed Seanad with new powers to "ensure we learn from the mistakes of a
failed political system".

Mr McDowell revealed: "To say, as Enda Kenny has, that the Seanad does nothing
is simply not true and I honestly believe the electorate will listen to us.

"This is a power grab by the Dail and it can't be allowed to happen.

"People need to stand up and say that this isn't the type of democracy we want
to live in.

"Many Government TDs are even on our side and want to see the Seanad saved but
they are too afraid of the party whip to take a stand and speak out, but the
fact they don't want to see it scrapped speaks volumes."

There are currently 60 Senators, 43 of whom are elected by five panels
representing vocational interests namely, Culture and Education, Agriculture,
Labour, Industry and Commerce and Public Administration.

Another six are chosen by the graduates of the National University of Ireland
and Trinity College Dublin while the remaining 11 are nominated by the
Taoiseach.

But reform campaigners want all five panels opened up to a public vote as the
cornerstone to their save the Seanad drive.

And with less than a month until D-Day on October 4, Mr McDowell warned
abolishing the Seanad will severely weaken the power of the people to keep the
Government in check at a time when accountability is more important than ever.

He said: "What will happen is that the Government whips, which at the minute are
all-powerful, will decide everything and push things through without debate and
there will be no one in the Oireachtas who can stop that. The Government is
dishonestly trying to persuade the people that the Seanad cannot be reformed and
that the only choice is abolition but a 'No' vote in next month's referendum is
one for political reform.

"But in a way reform is on the ballot paper because even though it's a black and
white yes or no vote, if you say yes to abolition then that's the end of reform
but if you retain it, the question will then be how is it going to be elected
the next time around."

THE "  Among the biggest criticisms of the Seanad is that it is a waste of
taxpayers money because it is powerless to make any real political difference.

KEEP While the Upper House can delay legislation but can't block it, this power
has only been used twice in 75 years.

But supporters have insisted this is because the Government has ultimate control
over Seanad appointments and fill it up with sympathisers who won't block their
will. Mr McDowell revealed: "There is nothing in the Constitution - absolutely
nothing - which prevents this Government from giving, by law, every Irish
citizen a vote for the elected members of the Seanad at the next election.

"It was the Dail, not the people, which enacted legislation giving only
politicians the votes in Seanad panel elections. " Fine Gael TD Simon Harris
sparked fury among Seanad supporters when he dismissed the house as an "elitist
retirement home for failed politicians and a nursery for wannabe TDs".

But Democracy Matters campaigners hit back, insisting the Seanad had been behind
some of the most important decisions in the State's history.

Mr McDowell told the Irish Mirror: "In the twoand-a-half years since this
government came into power, the Seanad has made more than 550 amendments to
Bills coming from the Dail.

"If you look at the people who have been elected on the universities panel for
example, they are a totally different type of people and arguably a much more
useful type of people than those elected by politicians.

"The Senators now directly elected are real, independent-minded additions to our
parliament like entrepreneur Feargal Quinn, economist Sean Barrett, oncologist
John Crown, law professor Ivana Bacik, author and gay rights champion David
Norris and conservative social commentator Ronan Mullen."

A reduction in property tax for disabled people who have had to speciallyadapt
their homes, better protection for sub-contractors when contractors go belly-up
and, most notably, Tom Morrissey's 2006 Private Members Bill which provided the
basis for the law giving people the right to defend themselves in their own
homes are just some of the Seanad's more recent highlights.

It was also the platform where Mary Robinson first attempted unsuccessfully to
decriminalise access to contraception in 1971.

Senators Feargal Quinn and Katherine Zappone currently have a Bill going through
the Dail which would radically overhaul the Seanad and could be law by
Christmas.

For Mr McDowell, the "ideal" Seanad would be the one set out in the
Quinn-Zappone bill. But it can only become a reality if voters say NO to
abolition next month.

The main points of that Bill include: GIVING every citizen in Ireland, even
those in the North and Irish passportholders living abroad, the right to ask for
a vote on one of the panels MAKING sure the elections produce an equal number of
men and women, and ENSURING the Seanad examines what's going on in the European
Parliament by looking at draft directives and suggesting amendments before they
become law in Europe.

Mr McDowell revealed: "The Government solemnly promised to reduce the number of
TDs by 20 but it has utterly broken that solemn promise, claiming that the terms
of the Constitution prevent it from doing so.

"If fewer politicians means that Ireland's parliament does a worse and worse
legislative job and never addresses EU legislation, we the citizens will be the
losers big time.

"The Government's promises of reform are worth nothing and people need to be
aware of this."

Irish Mirror Comment: Page 10

This is a power grab by the Dail and it can't be allowed to happen MICHAEL
MCDOWELL

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ENDA 3 OF THE ROAD Taoiseach Kenny wants the scrap the Seanad
FIGHTING Z BACK Michael McDowell in Dublin yesterday
IN THE BALANCE Vote will take place next month

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 13, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

A reformed Seanad could be more than just talk

BYLINE: Pat Flanagan

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 735 words


WHEN politicians are putting up posters promising fewer politicians be
suspicious, be very suspicious.

When they claim they are interested in saving you (EURO)20million a year by
abolishing the Seanad when it only costs (EURO)10million you know they are up to
something.

When Alan Dukes, Enda Kenny, Phil Hogan, Eamon Gilmore and Gerry Adams agree
something is good for us, be worried.

All of the above believe that the Seanad should be abolished and want public
approval to kill it.

What they also have in common is that none of them is on less than 100 grand a
year - some of them are on nearly double that.

If you think there is an unseemly rush to get rid of the Seanad that's because
there is.

Funny how Enda Kenny spent four decades in national politics and it's only in
the last couple of years he's decided it's bad for democracy.

If the polls are to be believed there is every chance that the referendum to
abolish the Seanad will be defeated.

The people are not stupid especially after Lisbon, Nice and the so-called
Stability referendums failed to deliver.

They are also suspicious of Fine Gael and Sinn Fein coming together to abolish
the Upper House of the our parliament. Actually, when you think of both their
histories maybe it's not that surprising. How does Sinn Gael sound? The Shinners
have a bit of a cheek seeing that they didn't recognise the Dail until a very
few years ago.

There is also the "One House" group which is also campaigning to whack the
Seanad.

They have described themselves as concerned Irish citizens.

A more accurate description would be concerned very well-off citizens.

It consists of the likes of Alan Dukes, Barrister Richard Humphreys and Labour
Relations boss Kieran Mulvey.

Only in Ireland can you have one elite group calling on the public to get rid of
another one.

On the other hand much of what the critics say about the Seanad is true.

Sure enough it was a glorified rest home for failed TDs but that's the way all
the parties wanted it.

And much of the time it was a useless talking shop but it didn't have to be that
way.

There have been around a dozen reports on Seanad reform over the years and none
have been followed up.

The truth is that governments did not want it to change in case it became a
threat and that is the case now.

The likes of Prof John Crown and Shane Ross showed the Upper House could play an
important role in the democratic process.

The reality is that the public do not trust the Government to deliver on
political reform and who can blame them? They are sick of the gun-tothe-head
tactics where ministers promise Dail reform but only if the public first abolish
the Seanad. This is political blackmail.

As it stands the Dail has become little more than a democratically elected
dictatorship.

Bills are rushed through with as little debate as possible and the whip system
kills all dissent.

In the past two years the guillotine was as busy as it was at the height of the
French Revolution.

The legislation that brought in the hated Household Tax was forced through the
Dail in four hours.

Fine Gael gave a commitment to abolish the Senate but since when did this
Government worry about election promises? Didn't they say there would be no cuts
to child benefits? No cuts to student www.grants.No property tax and no water
charges.

As for referendums, wasn't a vote for Lisbon and Nice supposed to bring jobs and
prosperity? They said if we voted for the Stability Treaty we'd get EU cash and
we're still waiting.

We voted Yes in the Children's Referendum and to celebrate Fine Gael and Labour
took away youngsters' special needs assistants.

The reason that over half the electorate are against the abolition of the Seanad
is because they distrust and even fear their own Government.

Abolishing the Seanad would further centralise power and erode democracy.

Jobs Minister Richard Bruton has given a vague promise of new committees to
replace the Seanad.

But who's to say they won't be packed with their pals and benefactors as happens
with State Boards.

If the Seanad was reformed it could become a real people's parliament
representing all the trades and professions. It could act as a brake on the
excesses of the Dail.

It could be anything the citizens of this republic want it to be.

Of course that is exactly what the politicians don't want and that is why it
must be retained.

The Seanad is broken and it needs to be fixed not abolished.

SEANAD NEEDS FIXING NOT AXING

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BRIT BOSSES: EU'S THE BEST FOR BUSINESS;
78% tell CBI that we should stay in your money

BYLINE: GRAHAM HISCOTT

SECTION: BUSINESS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 294 words


NEARLY eight out of 10 businesses back Britain staying in Europe, a survey has
revealed.

The majority of firms fear pulling out of the EU would dent trade.

However, a sizeable one in 10 companies think the UK would be better off out.

Even among those wanting us to remain, many moan about red tape imposed by
Brussels and wish to see change.

The CBI survey is the first major one carried out by the top business group for
a decade on the UK's relationship with the EU. More than 400 companies, together
directly employing over 1.5 g y million people, were asked where they would
stand if a referendum on the issue were to be held now.

It found 78% favoured staying in Europe, with the figure similarly high among
small and medium-sized businesses as large firms.

Cridland But companies called for a reduction in unnecessary regulations,
particularly with regards to employment law. They also want rules to be
implemented evenly across all member states.

Elsewhere, 71% of firms said the UK's membership of Europe had a positive or
very positive impact on their business.

But 13% said it was negative and the rest stated it made no difference. Three
quarters of firms reckon leaving the EU would result in there being less
overseas investment in the UK, yet 9% thought it would increase.

John Cridland, director-general of the CBI, said: "This sends a clear message
that most of our members, both big and small, support the UK's membership of the
EU.

"Firms want what is best for jobs and growth, and there is genuine concern that
an exit would hit both business investment and access to the world's largest
trading bloc."

Mr Cridland added: "Businesses do have some serious concerns about the EU, but
ultimately they want the UK inside the tent winning the argument for reform."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERN Cridland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

BRIT BOSSES: EU'S THE BEST FOR BUSINESS;
78% tell CBI that we should stay in

BYLINE: GRAHAM HISCOTT

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 302 words


NEARLY eight out of 10 businesses back Britain staying in Europe, a survey has
revealed.

The majority of firms fear pulling out of the EU would dent trade.

However, a sizeable one in 10 companies think the UK would be better off out.

Kg CONCERN J CONCERN J Even among those wanting us to remain, many moan about
red tape imposed by Brussels and wish to see change.

The CBI survey is the first major one carried out by the top business group for
a decade on the UK's relationship with the EU. More than 400 companies, together
directly employing over 1.5 g y million people, were asked where they would
stand if a referendum on the issue were to be held now.

wa w It found 78% favoured staying in Europe, with the figure similarly high
among small and medium-sized businesses as large firms.

Cridland mw sfi sbar Cridland But companies called for a reduction in
unnecessary regulations, particularly with regards to employment law. They also
want rules to be implemented evenly across all member states.

Elsewhere, 71% of firms said the UK's membership of Europe had a positive or
very positive impact on their business.

But 13% said it was negative and the rest stated it made no difference. Three
quarters of firms reckon leaving the EU would result in there being less
overseas investment in the UK, yet 9% thought it would increase.

John Cridland, director-general of the CBI, said: "This sends a clear message
that most of our members, both big and small, support the UK's membership of the
EU.

"Firms want what is best for jobs and growth, and there is genuine concern that
an exit would hit both business investment and access to the world's largest
trading bloc."

Mr Cridland added: "Businesses do have some serious concerns about the EU, but
ultimately they want the UK inside the tent winning the argument for reform."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERN J Cridland CONCERN J Cridland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 7, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Cautious grounds for hope

BYLINE: Lord Henry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 370 words


THIS week I am suffering from the strangest of sensations, a reluctance to write
about good news on the economic front. You may well ask why?

It stems from an abiding sense that so many people out there are suffering as
they are weighed down by debt, and the effects of the Troika's austerity
programme.

This has been so assiduously enacted by the "not a red cent more" Fine Gaelers
and their cohorts who don't follow "Labour's Way Not Frankfurt's Way".

However, I believe there is now more than a glimmer of light at the end of the
tunnel.

The more interesting statistic to emerge is the drop in the live register for
the 14 consecutive month.

I know you could well say is it not surprising, considering so many people have
left the country - more than 200,000 since 2008.

Yet, you combine this with increased production, a bit of life returning to the
property market and even a rise in the purchase of new cars and you get a
feeling there might be grounds for optimism.

Still, don't get over-excited, we are far from out of the woods yet. The
recovery in the euro zone is very fragile and hanging over the international
situation is Syria with the real risk the Middle East may erupt in flames.

All the more reason to hope our Government will be very careful with the Budget.

Is it not interesting the new Governor of the Bank of England has said he will
not raise interest rates until the unemployment falls to 7%. Our rate is still
above 13%.

Can we rely on the ECB to have Ireland's interests at heart because on so many
matters it marches to the beat of a German drum?

We need a serious debate on the direction we are taking. Are we going to get it
when economic policy is largely dictated by Enda Kenny, Michael Noonan, Eamon
Gilmore and Brendan Howlin?

So much for the democratic revolution we were promised. The other stark reality
is these four musketeers have failed to get us a real deal on our unsustainable
national debt. Until then we are still very fragile.

What really concerns me is the opportunity to debate these issues maybe lost in
the noise surrounding the referendum on the Senate.

This may suit the Government. The cynical might argue it is a deliberate ploy.
So don't get distracted. This is all too serious.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RECOVERING Eurozone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             August 19, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WITHIN the Labour ranks, those [...]

BYLINE: Jason Beattie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 55 words


WITHIN the Labour ranks, those shouting the loudest for a referendum on
Britain's EU membership are former allies of Gordon Brown. First Ian Austin
broke ranks, now Tom Watson has joined the chorus.

There is nothing to suggest this is an orchestrated operation but it would be
intriguing to know if their former boss shares their views.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             August 19, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

WITHIN the Labour ranks, those [...]

BYLINE: Jason Beattie

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 55 words


WITHIN the Labour ranks, those shouting the loudest for a referendum on
Britain's EU membership are former allies of Gordon Brown. First Ian Austin
broke ranks, now Tom Watson has joined the chorus.

There is nothing to suggest this is an orchestrated operation but it would be
intriguing to know if their former boss shares their views.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 17, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ed's just a yolk on immigration

BYLINE: Tony Parsons

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 572 words


THERE is no truth in the rumour that Labour are going to sack their immigration
spokesman Chris Bryant and replace him with a keen young man from Eastern Europe
who will do a much better job for far less money.

It is true, however, that if Chris Bryant's speech on immigration had been a
horse, then someone would have shot it and put the poor thing out of its misery.

First Chris was planning to slam Tesco and Next for hiring cheap foreign
workers. Then, er, it turns out that's not true at all and, er, Bryant ended up
praising Tesco and Next for hiring lots of locals. And, er, carry on everyone.
Nothing to see here. Well done, er, Tesco and Next. Well done, Labour.

Pathetic? Yes, but beyond Chris Bryant's ever-changing stance on immigration,
there lies a serious problem for our people, our country and, above all, the
Labour Party.

Labour has absolutely no idea what it believes about immigration. Labour is torn
between thinking that millions of foreigners should be welcome here and
believing we should look after our own.

Which one is it? "British jobs for British workers," Gordon Brown famously
thundered in his first speech as Labour Party leader.

And why not? The Labour Party was born from the trade union movement.

Labour is the only party that was specifically formed to protect the rights of
British workers.

But Gordon Brown was, of course, promising something that he could never deliver
- something that no British politician can deliver while we remain in the
European Union.

Our borders are wide open for business, and currently hiring. Citizens of 25
countries can work here. Two more nations - poor old Bulgaria and Romania, who
everybody seems to have it in for - are very welcome from January 1, 2014.
Waiting in the wings for EU membership are Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia,
Macedonia and Turkey.

Oh, and Albania and Kosovo. British jobs for British workers? It's a soundbite,
it's a fantasy, it's a joke.

Those days will only ever come again if we make some difficult decisions about
our country's future.

Don't look to David Cameron - he is a committed Brussels tart and desperately
wants us to stay in the EU, whatever sceptical platitudes he mouths about a
referendum.

Boris Johnson is exactly the same.

And don't worry about what the Lib Dems believe because UKIP will certainly
replace them as the third largest party after the next General Election.

UKIP knows what it believes and it chimes with what millions of the British
people believe. Sadly, far too many UKIP candidates look like the kind of people
my mixed-race family would not want living next door.

I don't mind a bit of fruitcake but I have an allergy to nuts.

And what of Labour? Labour have nothing of value to say about immigration
because they believe in two very different things.

One is that the British worker should be protected and valued. The other is that
all Europeans are brothers and should be able to work where they like. These are
both noble beliefs.

But you can't believe in both, Ed.

And one day soon - perhaps when 29 million Bulgarians and Romanians can work
here, perhaps when UKIP become the third largest party, perhaps when Ed Miliband
has blown the next General Election - Labour will realise how cowardly they have
been about immigration.

Because if the Labour Party does not believe in protecting the rights of the
British working class, then it doesn't truly believe in anything.

British. JOBS FOR British. WORKERS IS A MERE FANTASY

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 10, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

SAVE OUR SEANAD;
Poll finds support to keep second house is growing

BYLINE: SARAH BARDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 383 words


SUPPORT for the Seanad to be scrapped is falling, a poll found yesterday.

The survey shows 36% would vote to keep the upper house in October's referendum
- an increase of 2%.

Just under half of the voters 49% back the abolition of the Seanad, a 3%
decrease since the last poll in June.

The survey by Red C for Paddy Power also shows 15% of voters remain uncertain on
how they will vote, that's up 1%.

The pollsters said the findings will give heart to those trying to save the
upper chamber in the Oireachtas.

Historically No vote campaigns harden in referendums seeking a change as the
date of the ballot gets closer and the debate gets stronger.

Once the Don't Knows are removed from the results, 58% support scrapping the
Seanad while 42% are against the proposal.

Just over half of the population claim they will be certain to vote in the
referendum. with almost nine in 10 likely to turn up at polling stations.

The poll found Fine Gael and Sinn Fein supporters are more likely to back
abolition Fianna Fail and Independent voters would generally oppose this view.

The Seanad closed yesterday for its summer recess but will return on August 20
to discuss EU organ donation law.

The move follows a petition from 20 senators spear-headed by Fianna Fail Mark
Daly to debate the regulations.

For the law to be changed, Dail approval is required before the end of the
month, which now seems unlikely.

But Fine Gael has branded the recall as "a stunt". Senator Colm Burke questioned
the motives of Fianna Fail member Mark Daly, when he petitioned to have the
Seanad recalled to have organ donation legislation discussed.

He said: "I very much welcome any debate on organ donation and transplantation
which will raise awareness of the issue and increase the rate of donation in
Ireland.

"However, the stunt being pursued by Senator Daly is cynical in the extreme and
designed to raise the senator's own profile and that of the upper house.

"This move will do nothing to resolve the fundamental structural deficiencies
which have existed in Ireland's donation and transplantation system for more
than 15 years.

"Furthermore, recalling the Seanad will achieve nothing as the second house
cannot act alone on this or any other matter."

debate This a stunt to raise profile of the senator and the upper house SENATOR
BURKE

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN THE BALANCE Referendum will decide future of the Seanad

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 10, 2013 Saturday

SAVE OUR SEANAD;
Poll finds support to keep second house is growing

BYLINE: SARAH BARDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 382 words


SUPPORT for the Seanad to be scrapped is falling, a poll found yesterday.

The survey shows 36% would vote to keep the upper house in October's referendum
- an increase of 2%.

Just under half of the voters 49% back the abolition of the Seanad, a 3%
decrease since the last poll in June.

The survey by Red C for Paddy Power also shows 15% of voters remain uncertain on
how they will vote, that's up 1%.

The pollsters said the findings will give heart to those trying to save the
upper chamber in the Oireachtas.

Historically No vote campaigns harden in referendums seeking a change as the
date of the ballot gets closer and the debate gets stronger.

Once the Don't Knows are removed from the results, 58% support scrapping the
Seanad while 42% are against the proposal.

Just over half of the population claim they will be certain to vote in the
referendum.

with almost nine in 10 likely to turn up at polling stations.

The poll found Fine Gael and Sinn Fein supporters are more likely to back
abolition Fianna Fail and Independent voters would generally oppose this view.

The Seanad closed yesterday for its summer recess but will return on August 20
to discuss EU organ donation law.

The move follows a petition from 20 senators spear-headed by Fianna Fail Mark
Daly to debate the regulations.

For the law to be changed, Dail approval is required before the end of the
month, which now seems unlikely.

But Fine Gael has branded the recall as "a stunt". Senator Colm Burke questioned
the motives of Fianna Fail member Mark Daly, when he petitioned to have the
Seanad recalled to have organ donation legislation discussed.

He said: "I very much welcome any debate on organ donation and transplantation
which will raise awareness of the issue and increase the rate of donation in
Ireland.

"However, the stunt being pursued by Senator Daly is cynical in the extreme and
designed to raise the senator's own profile and that of the upper house. "This
move will do nothing to resolve the fundamental structural deficiencies which
have existed in Ireland's donation and transplantation system for more than 15
years.

"Furthermore, recalling the Seanad will achieve nothing as the second house
cannot act alone on this or any other matter."

This a stunt to raise profile of the senator and the upper house SENATOR BURKE

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN THE BALANCE JReferendum will decide future of the Seanad

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 10, 2013 Saturday

SAVE OUR SEANAD;
Poll finds support to keep second house is growing

BYLINE: SARAH BARDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 383 words


SUPPORT for the Seanad to be scrapped is falling, a poll found yesterday.

The survey shows 36% would vote to keep the upper house in October's referendum
- an increase of 2%.

Just under half of the voters 49% back the abolition of the Seanad, a 3%
decrease since the last poll in June.

The survey by Red C for Paddy Power also shows 15% of voters remain uncertain on
how they will vote, that's up 1%.

The pollsters said the findings will give heart to those trying to save the
upper chamber in the Oireachtas.

Historically No vote campaigns harden in referendums seeking a change as the
date of the ballot gets closer and the debate gets stronger.

Once the Don't Knows are removed from the results, 58% support scrapping the
Seanad while 42% are against the proposal.

Just over half of the population claim they will be certain to vote in the
referendum.

with almost nine in 10 likely to turn up at polling stations.

The poll found Fine Gael and Sinn Fein supporters are more likely to back
abolition Fianna Fail and Independent voters would generally oppose this view.

The Seanad closed yesterday for its summer recess but will return on August 20
to discuss EU organ donation law.

The move follows a petition from 20 senators spear-headed by Fianna Fail Mark
Daly to debate the regulations.

For the law to be changed, Dail approval is required before the end of the
month, which now seems unlikely.

But Fine Gael has branded the recall as "a stunt". Senator Colm Burke questioned
the motives of Fianna Fail member Mark Daly, when he petitioned to have the
Seanad recalled to have organ donation legislation discussed.

He said: "I very much welcome any debate on organ donation and transplantation
which will raise awareness of the issue and increase the rate of donation in
Ireland.

"However, the stunt being pursued by Senator Daly is cynical in the extreme and
designed to raise the senator's own profile and that of the upper house. "This
move will do nothing to resolve the fundamental structural deficiencies which
have existed in Ireland's donation and transplantation system for more than 15
years.

"Furthermore, recalling the Seanad will achieve nothing as the second house
cannot act alone on this or any other matter."

debate This a stunt to raise profile of the senator and the upper house SENATOR
BURKE

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN THE BALANCE JReferendum will decide future of the Seanad

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MPs VOTE TO HAVE EU POLL BEFORE 2017;
Big win as Labour and Lib-Dems abstain

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 318 words


AN in-out referendum on the UK's EU membership was agreed by MPs in a unanimous
vote yesterday.

Labour and Lib Dems boycotted the second reading of the bill to hold the EU poll
by 2017. It went through 304 votes to nil.

But the backbench bill was branded a meaningless manoeuvre aimed at holding
David Cameron hostage to a possible exit from the EU.

Few MPs expect it to become law because there is not enough time for it to jump
all the parlia-mentary hurdles before the next General Election. Shadow Foreign
Secretary Douglas Alexander said: "This is a party still banging on about
Europe, a party talking to itself and not the country."

And Labour MP John Denham added: "Our Prime Minister, in the eyes of Europe, has
been humiliated by his own backbenchers." Deputy PM Nick Clegg branded the bill
a "complete stunt".

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the PM was running scared of him.

But Stockton South MP James Wharton, who proposed the private member's bill,
claimed that he was speaking for "many millions" outside the Commons.

He said: "This is about giving the British public a real say, a real choice
between a best possible deal we can get from the EU and, if the public choose,
to leave, if that's what they want to do." The Prime Minister agreed that the
vote would "give the British people their say on Europe".

And, speaking on behalf of the Government, Foreign Secretary William Hague said
the bill was "the best chance currently available" for a referendum.

It next faces detailed Commons committee scrutiny before a third Commons
reading. It will then have to pass through the Lords.

The Mirror revealed yesterday that Labour may table an amendment calling for a
referendum before the next election, in a bid to sabotage the bill.

Six Labour MPs joined Tory yes voters for a referendum: Roger Godsiff, Kate
Hoey, Kelvin Hopkins, Dennis Skinner, Graham Stringer and Gisela Stuart.

VOICE OF THE MIRROR: PAGE 10

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BILL MP James Wharton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Scared Cam;
VOICE OF THE voice@mirror.co.uk

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 46 words


DAVID Cameron is running away from a referendum on Britain in the European
Union.

The Prime Minister puts off a vote by talking about a poll in the next
Parliament when he is avoiding holding one now.

Yesterday's Tory stunt in the Commons will fool nobody, least of all
Eurosceptics.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MPs VOTE TO HAVE EU POLL BEFORE 2017;
Big win as Labour and Lib-Dems abstain

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 318 words


AN in-out referendum on the UK's EU membership was agreed by MPs in a unanimous
vote yesterday.

Labour and Lib Dems boycotted the second reading of the bill to hold the EU poll
by 2017. It went through 304 votes to nil.

But the backbench bill was branded a meaningless manoeuvre aimed at holding
David Cameron hostage to a possible exit from the EU.

Few MPs expect it to become law because there is not enough time for it to jump
all the parlia-mentary hurdles before the next General Election. Shadow Foreign
Secretary Douglas Alexander said: "This is a party still banging on about
Europe, a party talking to itself and not the country."

And Labour MP John Denham added: "Our Prime Minister, in the eyes of Europe, has
been humiliated by his own backbenchers." Deputy PM Nick Clegg branded the bill
a "complete stunt".

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the PM was running scared of him.

But Stockton South MP James Wharton, who proposed the private member's bill,
claimed that he was speaking for "many millions" outside the Commons.

He said: "This is about giving the British public a real say, a real choice
between a best possible deal we can get from the EU and, if the public choose,
to leave, if that's what they want to do." The Prime Minister agreed that the
vote would "give the British people their say on Europe".

And, speaking on behalf of the Government, Foreign Secretary William Hague said
the bill was "the best chance currently available" for a referendum.

It next faces detailed Commons committee scrutiny before a third Commons
reading. It will then have to pass through the Lords.

The Mirror revealed yesterday that Labour may table an amendment calling for a
referendum before the next election, in a bid to sabotage the bill.

Six Labour MPs joined Tory yes voters for a referendum: Roger Godsiff, Kate
Hoey, Kelvin Hopkins, Dennis Skinner, Graham Stringer and Gisela Stuart. VOICE
OF THE MIRROR: PAGE 10

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BILL MP James Wharton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Scaredy Cam;
VOICE OF THE voice@mirror.co.uk

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 46 words


DAVID Cameron is running away from a referendum on Britain in the European
Union.

The Prime Minister puts off a vote by talking about a poll in the next
Parliament when he is avoiding holding one now.

Yesterday's Tory stunt in the Commons will fool nobody, least of all
Eurosceptics.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

MPs agree on Europe vote by 2017

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 92 words


MPs yesterday voted unanimously to hold an in-out EU referendum before 2017.

Labour and the Lib Dems boycotted the "meaningless" vote - which stands little
chance of becoming law before the next election.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Douglas Alexander accused eurosceptic Tories of taking
David Cameron "hostage" while UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the party was
running scared of him.

The Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg meanwhile branded the bill a "stunt".

But Tory MPs, alongside six Labour rebels, voted by 304 to zero for backbencher
James Wharton's bill.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              July 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour plot to scupper EU vote Bill;
COMMONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 97 words


LABOUR is plotting to wreck a Tory Bill paving the way for a referendum on UK
membership of the European Union. Backbench Conservative MP James Wharton's
private bill calling for a vote in 2017 is expected to be passed today as most
Labour and Lib Dem MPs will abstain.

But a Eurosceptic Labour backbencher will put forward an amendment at the report
stage calling for a snap poll on the issue before the 2015 general election.

Labour insiders hope the tactic will split the Tories and possibly scupper the
Bill.

One said: "This is about exposing the weakness of David Cameron's position."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ed is urged to back EU in-out vote

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 110 words


ED Miliband is under mounting pressure from Labour MPs to back an inout Europe
referendum.

Two-thirds of his 26-strong Shadow Cabinet team now believe he should give the
public a say on Britain's relationship with the EU, Labour sources have
disclosed.

The revelation comes ahead of a Tory push this week to bring in a new law
committing any future government to hold an EU referendum in 2017.

A senior Labour source said: "A majority of the Shadow Cabinet believe we have
to come off the fence about an EU referendum."

Some Tories and Labour MPs want a vote held much sooner - possibly as early as
May 22 next year - the same day as European parliamentary elections.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Ed is urged to back EU in-out vote

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 110 words


ED Miliband is under mounting pressure from Labour MPs to back an inout Europe
referendum. Two-thirds of his 26-strong Shadow Cabinet team now believe he
should give the public a say on Britain's relationship with the EU, Labour
sources have disclosed.

The revelation comes ahead of a Tory push this week to bring in a new law
committing any future government to hold an EU referendum in 2017.

A senior Labour source said: "A majority of the Shadow Cabinet believe we have
to come off the fence about an EU referendum."

Some Tories and Labour MPs want a vote held much sooner - possibly as early as
May 22 next year - the same day as European parliamentary elections.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ken: EU role is a big deal;
summit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 83 words


BRITAIN will be shut out of lucrative international deals if we quit the EU,
Tory Ken Clarke has warned.

The former Chancellor said: "It is the EU making deals with the US and Canada
possible. It should come as no surprise Obama's officials have said they would
have 'very little appetite' for a deal with the British alone."

His comments come after a trade deal worth billions between the EU and the US
was announced at the G8.

PM David Cameron has pledged to call a referendum on EU membership by 2018.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ken: EU role is a big deal;
summit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 83 words


BRITAIN will be shut out of lucrative international deals if we quit the EU,
Tory Ken Clarke has warned.

The former Chancellor said: "It is the EU making deals with the US and Canada
possible. It should come as no surprise Obama's officials have said they would
have 'very little appetite' for a deal with the British alone."

His comments come after a trade deal worth billions between the EU and the US
was announced at the G8.

PM David Cameron has pledged to call a referendum on EU membership by 2018.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ken: EU role is a big deal;
summit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 83 words


BRITAIN will be shut out of lucrative international deals if we quit the EU,
Tory Ken Clarke has warned.

The former Chancellor said: "It is the EU making deals with the US and Canada
possible. It should come as no surprise Obama's officials have said they would
have 'very little appetite' for a deal with the British alone."

His comments come after a trade deal worth billions between the EU and the US
was announced at the G8.

PM David Cameron has pledged to call a referendum on EU membership by 2018.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 4, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Warning of Labour split over EU poll;
REFERENDUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 92 words


ED Miliband risks splitting the Labour Party unless he offers an in-out
referendum on membership of the EU, MPs will warn today.

The Labour for a Referendum campaign, bankrolled by millionaire businessman John
Mills, launches today with the backing of dozens of MPs, peers and more than 150
Labour councillors, who will urge Mr Miliband not to ignore core supporters.

Mr Mills said: "Fighting an election without a commitment to an EU referendum is
dangerous. The Tories will paint us as the anti-democratic party in 2015 if we
don't give the people a say."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 27, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories at full farce;
your letters

BYLINE: FIONA PARKER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 492 words


IT is the older generation that finds it tough to come to terms with the idea of
gay marriage.

So I suppose by pushing through his gay marriage legislation David Cameron is
hoping he will be seen as a modern-thinking Prime Minister to today's voting
youngsters.

But living in the ideological, privileged world he does, surrounded by his
elitist friends, he fails to understand falling living standards, rising prices,
the NHS and fighting crime are uppermost in ordinary people's minds - not
membership of the EU or gay marriage.

Christine Hanks, Woking, Surrey

THE Lib Dems must be aghast as they watch their Coalition partners engulfed by
internal conflict.

But it should not come as a surprise because the far-right has already split off
over Europe and now the narrow-minded wing is making waves on the inside about
same-sex marriage. You might expect a member of the Labour Party, like me, to be
rejoicing - but not so.

The division and conflict that now afflicts the Tories is a reflection of our
whole society. We must turn our backs on insular nationalism if we are to
progress into the 21st century.

D Sawtell, Tydd St Giles, Cambs

WHY is this Government wasting valuable Parliamentary time debating gay
marriage?

There are so many more important issues, namely the economy, poverty, health and
education. Out of touch? They're lost out in space.

Frank Kirk, Scarborough North Yorks

WE now have Nick Clegg insisting the Coalition is strong and that it must stick
to the current austerity programme, but of all the problems caused by this
Government that need to be discussed, they spend two days debating gay marriage.

We have an idiot for a Prime Minister who is running scared from his own
backbenchers and grassroots supporters. The sooner we get rid of these two
clowns the better.

Stan Gray Blackhall Colliery, Co Durham

IT is amazing to me that we have all been expecting the Coalition to crumble
over its austerity measures and yet what is causing more problems is a small
minority of Tories objecting to gay marriage, as if it's even a big issue.

When will they get their priorities right - and what is going to happen to the
loveless marriage between Cameron and Clegg?

Geoff Willmetts Bridgwater, Somerset

FORMER Tory chairman Lord Tebbit argues the gay marriage Bill may lead to a
"lesbian queen and an artificially inseminated heir", and that it could allow
him to marry his son to escape inheritance tax.

But enough of that, what was that about "mad swivel-eyed loons" in the Tory
party? Sasha Simic, North London

CAN someone tell me when all the country's problems got solved?

All the Tories are doing is fighting among themselves now.

If it's not about Europe it's about gay marriage.

Mick Preskey, Leeds

The BIG issue

MPs voted in favour of gay marriage by 366 to 161, despite a rebellion by 134
Tories. The party split comes after a revolt over an EU referendum. You say the
Tories must concentrate on the economy and not get sidetracked by rebels...

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 27, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Same-sex Tory split;
EDITED BY yourletters FIONA PARKER

BYLINE: FIONA PARKER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 495 words


IT is the older generation that finds it tough to come to terms with the idea of
gay marriage.

So I suppose by pushing through his gay marriage legislation David Cameron is
hoping he will be seen as a modern-thinking Prime Minister to today's voting
youngsters.

But living in the ideological, privileged world he does, surrounded by his
elitist friends, he fails to understand falling living standards, rising prices,
the NHS and fighting crime are uppermost in ordinary people's minds - not
membership of the EU or gay marriage.

Christine Hanks, Woking, Surrey ? THE Lib Dems must be aghast as they watch
their Coalition partners engulfed by internal conflict.

But it should not come as a surprise because the far-right has already split off
over Europe and now the narrow-minded wing is making waves on the inside about
same-sex marriage. You might expect a member of the Labour Party, like me, to be
rejoicing - but not so.

The division and conflict that now afflicts the Tories is a reflection of our
whole society. We must turn our backs on insular nationalism if we are to
progress into the 21st century.

D Sawtell, Tydd St Giles, Cambs ? WHY is this Government wasting valuable
Parliamentary time debating gay marriage? There are so many more important
issues, namely the economy, poverty, health and education. Out of touch? They're
lost out in space.

Frank Kirk, Scarborough North Yorks ? WE now have Nick Clegg insisting the
Coalition is strong and that it must stick to the current austerity programme,
but of all the problems caused by this Government that need to be discussed,
they spend two days debating gay marriage.

We have an idiot for a Prime Minister who is running scared from his own
backbenchers and grassroots supporters. The sooner we get rid of these two
clowns the better.

Stan Gray Blackhall Colliery, Co Durham ? IT is amazing to me that we have all
been expecting the Coalition to crumble over its austerity measures and yet what
is causing more problems is a small minority of Tories objecting to gay
marriage, as if it's even a big issue.

When will they get their priorities right - and what is going to happen to the
loveless marriage between Cameron and Clegg? Geoff Willmetts Bridgwater,
Somerset ?FORMER Tory chairman Lord Tebbit argues the gay marriage Bill may lead
to a "lesbian queen and an artificially inseminated heir", and that it could
allow him to marry his son to escape inheritance tax.

But enough of that, what was that about "mad swivel-eyed loons" in the Tory
party? Sasha Simic, North London ? CAN someone tell me when all the country's
problems got solved? All the Tories are doing is fighting among themselves now.

If it's not about Europe it's about gay marriage.

Mick Preskey, Leeds The BIG issue MPs voted in favour of gay marriage by 366 to
161, despite a rebellion by 134 Tories. The party split comes after a revolt
over an EU referendum. You say the Tories must concentrate on the economy and
not get sidetracked by rebels...

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FOUR PLOTS TO OUST CAM

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words


WORRIED Downing Street officials are trying to contain FOUR separate plots by
right-wingers against Prime Minister David Cameron.

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond has been slapped down by the party leadership
who are furious at his "manoeuvres" amid growing Tory turmoil.

Some MPs believe he is setting himself up as a leader of the party's right - and
there is growing suspicion that he might quit the Cabinet to challenge the PM
from the back benches.

Mr Cameron's advisers also have concerns about former defence secretary Liam
Fox, former shadow home secretary David Davis, and Windsor MP Adam Afriyie - all
feared to be possible rallying points for the rebels. A high-ranking insider
conceded: "We think there are at least three plots, maybe four."

Number 10 do not believe there are yet anywhere near enough rebels to threaten a
challenge to the PM. A "no confidence" vote would be triggered only if at least
46 Tory MPs sent letters to the party's 1922 Committee.

It is thought that there are more than a dozen ready to act, however, and
Cameron aides are increasingly nervous about the growing unrest.

Mr Hammond, 57, was on a foreign visit last week and so avoided taking part in
the Commons vote on gay marriage, which he opposes. His trip to Mali was
arranged only at the last minute, fuelling speculation that he deliberately
avoided being present. The minister says the Government is upsetting "vast
numbers of people" with the plan.

He was one of two Cabinet ministers who said he wanted to leave the European
Union during the row over Mr Cameron's referendum plan.

And he is fighting hard against Chancellor George Osborne's planned cuts to his
defence budget.

Other ministers have also refused to find the 10% savings the Chancellor is
demanding under his plan to slash spending by £11.5bn.

Mr Hammond and Environment Secretary Owen Paterson have joined forces with Lib
Dem Business Secretary Vince Cable to oppose the cuts.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hammond Fox
Davis
Afriyie Threatened... Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

FOUR PLOTS TO OUST CAM

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words


WORRIED Downing Street officials are trying to contain FOUR separate plots by
right-wingers against Prime Minister David Cameron.

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond has been slapped down by the party leadership
who are furious at his "manoeuvres" amid growing Tory turmoil.

Some MPs believe he is setting himself up as a leader of the party's right - and
there is growing suspicion that he might quit the Cabinet to challenge the PM
from the back benches.

Mr Cameron's advisers also have concerns about former defence secretary Liam
Fox, former shadow home secretary David Davis, and Windsor MP Adam Afriyie - all
feared to be possible rallying points for the rebels. A high-ranking insider
conceded: "We think there are at least three plots, maybe four."

Number 10 do not believe there are yet anywhere near enough rebels to threaten a
challenge to the PM. A "no confidence" vote would be triggered only if at least
46 Tory MPs sent letters to the party's 1922 Committee.

It is thought that there are more than a dozen ready to act, however, and
Cameron aides are increasingly nervous about the growing unrest.

Mr Hammond, 57, was on a foreign visit last week and so avoided taking part in
the Commons vote on gay marriage, which he opposes. His trip to Mali was
arranged only at the last minute, fuelling speculation that he deliberately
avoided being present. The minister says the Government is upsetting "vast
numbers of people" with the plan.

He was one of two Cabinet ministers who said he wanted to leave the European
Union during the row over Mr Cameron's referendum plan.

And he is fighting hard against Chancellor George Osborne's planned cuts to his
defence budget.

Other ministers have also refused to find the 10% savings the Chancellor is
demanding under his plan to slash spending by £11.5bn.

Mr Hammond and Environment Secretary Owen Paterson have joined forces with Lib
Dem Business Secretary Vince Cable to oppose the cuts.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hammond Fox
Davis
Afriyie Threatened... Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAM'S LAST STAND;
TORIES ON THE WARPATH FOR PM Loongate quiz looms for tennis chum Feldman Right
set to beat PM on gay marriage vote Grandees put the boot into 'weak' leader

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1028 words


DAVID Cameron is drinking in the last chance saloon today after furious Tories
took aim at the cowboy PM on gay marriage, Europe and Loongate.

Calamity Dave had to circle his wagons over the weekend as he stood by
Conservative chairman Lord Feldman, who was accused of calling party activists
"mad, swivel-eyed loons".

The peer - Mr Cameron's tennis partner and an Oxford pal - denied making the
comments and today will be grilled by the party's board to get to the bottom of
the row.

It came as rebels on the right prepared to side with Labour and Lib Dems in a
crunch vote on extending civil part-nerships to straight couples. It would be a
catastrophic Commons defeat for Mr Cameron. The change would cost billions and
delay by 18 months the gay weddings he has championed.

Loongate was sparked after an anonymous member of the PM's inner circle
dismissed last week's rebellion by 116 MPs over an EU referendum, blaming it on
pressure from constituency parties.

At a Westminster restaurant with journalists, the figure apparently said: "The
MPs just have to do it because the associations tell them to and the
associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

Lord Feldman was named online as the man behind the comments, and he has now
threatened to sue.

He issued a statement insisting he did not make the "derogatory comments". He
said: "I did not, nor have I ever, described our associations in this or in any
similar way."

The PM has given his old university friend his personal backing and senior party
figures including Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt were sent out to praise him
yesterday.

But one member of the board that will quiz Lord Feldman at this afternoon's
meeting openly questioned his denial.

MP Brian Binley said: "I don't want to pre-judge the matter but it appears it
was said.

"I do not believe journalists of this kind lie. I assume something was said. I
don't know whether it was said as a joke but if it was it belies an attitude of
mind." The right-wing backbencher added: "Something of this sort must have been
said. We need to know the truth."

Tory ex-Cabinet minister David Mellor weighed in too, saying if Lord Feldman did
not make the remarks he should follow through on his threat to sue.

Mr Mellor told Sky: "He strenuously denies it but, if so, I have to say as a
former lawyer... sue them. I think we will find the writ will not appear.

"If it was him this has been a disaster waiting to happen, because you cannot
elevate tennis-playing friends to be chairman of the party without there being a
political price to pay."

Perhaps most tellingly, former party chairman Norman Tebbit said the main
problem was not whether the comment had been made, or who it had been made by,
but that many people in the party did not doubt it was said. He added: "People
think it has the ring of truth."

Lord Tebbit accused Mr Cameron of abandoning the "common ground" of British
politics by championing issues such as gay marriage and said he should give
peers the green light to dump it.

The grandee said: "He could whisper in the ears of the whips in the Lords that
he would not burst into tears if he thought it would go down the swanney."

The attack came after former Chancellor Lord Geoffrey Howe said on Saturday that
the PM had also lost control of his party over Europe and was "running scared"
of this backbenchers.

Bob Woollard, chairman of the Conservative Grassroots organisation, headed a
group of more than 30 serving and former constituency association chairmen who
handed a letter in to Downing Street yesterday calling for gay marriage plans to
be scrapped.

He demanded: "Do I look like a mad, swivel-eyed loon? I don't know who said
that, but whoever said that, if it was somebody close to David Cameron, the
Prime Minister needs to disassociate himself from those words, reprimand the
person and if the person isn't prepared to give a fulsome apology, sack them."

He said same sex marriage was a "tipping point" that has forced many to say:
"I've had enough, I'm off, I will never vote Conservative again."

UKIP has also seized on the "swiveleyed" jibe. Its leader Nigel Farage - who
himself quit the Conservatives in 1992 over Maastricht - has called on other
disgruntled members to join him.

Up to 200 Tories are set to defy Mr Cameron on gay marriage today, including at
least two Cabinet ministers, Owen Paterson and David Jones, and probably a
third, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond. Justice Secretary Chris Grayling is
expected to back amendments that will let public sector workers refuse to carry
out gay marriages. Traditional right-wing Tories see the vote as their best
chance of killing off same-sex weddings, which are due to start next summer. Any
changes would mean Whitehall and Town Hall computer systems having to be
updated.

The Treasury would also face finding an extra £4billion in public sector pension
payments, a cost that will be even greater for private firms.

Tory MP Jackie Doyle-Price yesterday said that while she had always "been in
favour of marriage equality" she could not support the gay marriage Bill because
it was such "a mess".

THE Prime Minister has threatened to collapse the Coalition as he struggles to
deal with his Lib Dem partners as well as his own MPs.

Mr Cameron told Total Politics: "What matters to me, is can we get things done?
Can we improve the state of the country? Can we fulfil our manifesto?

"The best way to do that is to continue with the Coalition, but if that wasn't
the case we'd have to face the new circumstances in whatever way we should."

LEADER'S BLASTS FROM THE PAST..

'By making it clear that he opposes the current terms of UK membership of the EU
the Prime Minister has opened a Pandora's box politically and seems to be losing
control of his party in the process'

LORD HOWE, former Chancellor

'It is not whether it was said or by whom it is the fact most people think it
might have been said that is damaging. People think it has the ring of truth'

LORD TEBBIT former party chairman

'You can't elevate tennis-playing friends to chairmen without paying a political
price'

DAVID MELLOR former Culture Secretary

I don't know if it was said as a joke but it belies an attitude of mind BRIAN
BINLEY MP it

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DENIAL PM's pal Lord Feldman
COWARDY CUSTER PM has bent to the right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CAM'S LAST STAND;
TORIES ON THE WARPATH FOR PM

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1039 words


LEADER'S BLASTS FROM THE PAST..

'By making it clear that he opposes the current terms of UK membership of the EU
the Prime Minister has opened a Pandora's box politically and seems to be losing
control of his party in the process'LORD HOWE, former Chancellor, 'It is not
whether it was said or by whom it is the fact most people think it might have
been said that is damaging. People think it has the ring of truth' LORD TEBBIT
former party chairman 'You can't elevate tennis-playing friends to chairmen
without paying a political price' DAVID MELLOR former Culture Secretary DAVID
Cameron is drinking in the last chance saloon today after furious Tories took
aim at the cowboy PM on gay marriage, Europe and Loongate.

Calamity Dave had to circle his wagons over the weekend as he stood by
Conservative chairman Lord Feldman, who was accused of calling party activists
"mad, swivel-eyed loons". The peer - Mr Cameron's tennis partner and an Oxford
pal - denied making the comments and today will be grilled by the party's board
to get to the bottom of the row.

It came as rebels on the right prepared to side with Labour and Lib Dems in a
crunch vote on extending civil part-nerships to straight couples. It would be a
catastrophic Commons defeat for Mr Cameron. The change would cost billions and
delay by 18 months the gay weddings he has championed.

Loongate was sparked after an anonymous member of the PM's inner circle
dismissed last week's rebellion by 116 MPs over an EU referendum, blaming it on
pressure from constituency parties.

At a Westminster restaurant with journalists, the figure apparently said: "The
MPs just have to do it because the associations tell them to and the
associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

Lord Feldman was named online as the man behind the comments, and he has now
threatened to sue.

He issued a statement insisting he did not make the "derogatory comments". He
said: "I did not, nor have I ever, described our associations in this or in any
similar way."

The PM has given his old university friend his personal backing and senior party
figures including Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt were sent out to praise him
yesterday.

But one member of the board that will quiz Lord Feldman at this afternoon's
meeting openly questioned his denial.

MP Brian Binley said: "I don't want to pre-judge the matter but it appears it
was said.

"I do not believe journalists of this kind lie. I assume something was said. I
don't know whether it was said as a joke but if it was it belies an attitude of
mind." The right-wing backbencher added: "Something of this sort must have been
said. We need to know the truth."

Tory ex-Cabinet minister David Mellor weighed in too, saying if Lord Feldman did
not make the remarks he should follow through on his threat to sue.

Mr Mellor told Sky: "He strenuously denies it but, if so, I have to say as a
former lawyer... sue them. I think we will find the writ will not appear.

"If it was him this has been a disaster waiting to happen, because you cannot
elevate tennis-playing friends to be chairman of the party without there being a
political price to pay."

Perhaps most tellingly, former party chairman Norman Tebbit said the maiproblem
was not whether the commenhad been made, or who it had been madby, but that many
people in the party dinot doubt it was said. He added: "Peoplthink it has the
ring of truth."

Lord Tebbit accused Mr Cameron of abandoning the "common ground" of British
politics by championing issues such as gay marriage and said he should give
peers the green light to dump it.

The grandee said: "He could whisper in the ears of the whips in the Lords that
he would not burst into tears if he thought it would go down the swanney."

The attack came after former Chancellor Lord Geoffrey Howe said on Saturday that
the PM had also lost control of his party over Europe and was "running scared"
of this backbenchers.

Bob Woollard, chair of Conservative Grassroots, headed a group of more than 30
serving and former constituency association chairmen who handed a letter in to
Downing Street yesterday calling for gay marriage to be scrapped.

He demanded: "Do I look like a mad, swivel-eyed loon? I don't know who said
that, but whoever said that, if it was somebody close to David Cameron, the
Prime Minister needs to disassociate himself from those words, reprimand the
person and if the person isn't prepared to give a fulsome apology, sack them."

He said same-sex marriage was the "tipping point" that has led many to say: "I
will never vote Conservative again."

UKIP has also seized on the "swiveleyed" jibe. Its leader Nigel Farage - who
himself quit the Conservatives in 1992 over Maastricht - has called on other
disgruntled members to join him. And he twisted the knife by taking out a full
page ad in a Tory newspaper today which taunts: "Only an administration run by a
bunch of college kids, none of whom have ever had a proper job in their lives,
could so arrogantly write off their own supporters."

BID? J Boris "  Up to 200 Tories will defy their leader on gay marriage toda -
at least two Cabinet ministers, Owen Paterson and David Jones, and probably a
third, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond. Justice Secretary Chris Gray-yling is
likely to back amendments that let staff refuse to conduct gay marriages.

Right-wing Tories see the vote as their best chance of killing off same-sex
weddings, due to start next summer.

Any changes would mean computer systems having to be updated. The Treasury would
also have to find an extra £4billion in public pension payments.

Tory MP Jackie Doyle-Price yesterday said while she was "in favour of marriage
equality" she could not support the gay marriage Bill because it was "a mess".

3 THE Prime Minister has threatened to collapse the Coalition as he struggles to
deal with his Lib Dem partners as well as his own Tory rebels.

Mr Cameron told Total Politics: "What matters to me, is can we get things done?
Can we improve the state of the country? Can we fulfil our manifesto? "The best
way to do that is to continue with the Coalition, but if that wasn't the case
we'd have to face the new circumstances in whatever way we should."

I don't know if it was said as a joke but it belies an attitude of mind BRIAN
BINLEY MP it

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DENIAL J PM's pal Lord Feldman
COWARDY JCUSTER PM has bent to the right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

CAM'S LAST STAND;
TORIES ON THE WARPATH FOR PM ; Loongate quiz looms for tennis chum Feldman ;
Right set to beat PM on gay marriage vote ; Grandees put the boot into 'weak'
leader

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 1036 words


LEADER'S BLASTS FROM THE PAST..

'By making it clear that he opposes the current terms of UK membership of the EU
the Prime Minister has opened a Pandora's box politically and seems to be losing
control of his party in the process'LORD HOWE, former Chancellor 'It is not
whether it was said or by whom it is the fact most people think it might have
been said that is damaging. People think it has the ring of truth' LORD TEBBIT
former party chairman 'You can't elevate tennis-playing friends to chairmen
without paying a political price' DAVID MELLOR former Culture Secretary DAVID
Cameron is drinking in the last chance saloon today after furious Tories took
aim at the cowboy PM on gay marriage, Europe and Loongate.

Calamity Dave had to circle his wagons over the weekend as he stood by
Conservative chairman Lord Feldman, who was accused of calling party activists
"mad, swivel-eyed loons". The peer - Mr Cameron's tennis partner and an Oxford
pal - denied making the comments and today will be grilled by the party's board
to get to the bottom of the row.

It came as rebels on the right prepared to side with Labour and Lib Dems in a
crunch vote on extending civil part-nerships to straight couples. It would be a
catastrophic Commons defeat for Mr Cameron. The change would cost billions and
delay by 18 months the gay weddings he has championed.

Loongate was sparked after an anonymous member of the PM's inner circle
dismissed last week's rebellion by 116 MPs over an EU referendum, blaming it on
pressure from constituency parties.

At a Westminster restaurant with journalists, the figure apparently said: "The
MPs just have to do it because the associations tell them to and the
associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

Lord Feldman was named online as the man behind the comments, and he has now
threatened to sue.

He issued a statement insisting he did not make the "derogatory comments". He
said: "I did not, nor have I ever, described our associations in this or in any
similar way."

The PM has given his old university friend his personal backing and senior party
figures including Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt were sent out to praise him
yesterday.

But one member of the board that will quiz Lord Feldman at this afternoon's
meeting openly questioned his denial.

MP Brian Binley said: "I don't want to pre-judge the matter but it appears it
was said.

"I do not believe journalists of this kind lie. I assume something was said. I
don't know whether it was said as a joke but if it was it belies an attitude of
mind." The right-wing backbencher added: "Something of this sort must have been
said. We need to know the truth."

Tory ex-Cabinet minister David Mellor weighed in too, saying if Lord Feldman did
not make the remarks he should follow through on his threat to sue.

Mr Mellor told Sky: "He strenuously denies it but, if so, I have to say as a
former lawyer... sue them. I think we will find the writ will not appear.

"If it was him this has been a disaster waiting to happen, because you cannot
elevate tennis-playing friends to be chairman of the party without there being a
political price to pay."

Perhaps most tellingly, former party chairman Norman Tebbit said the main n
problem was not whether the comment had been made, or who it had been made by,
but that many people in the party did not doubt it was said. He added: "People
think it has the ring of truth." nt de id le of "  Lord Tebbit accused Mr
Cameron of abandoning the "common ground" of British politics by championing
issues such as gay marriage and said he should give peers the green light to
dump it.

The grandee said: "He could whisper in the ears of the whips in the Lords that
he would not burst into tears if he thought it would go down the swanney."

The attack came after former Chancellor Lord Geoffrey Howe said on Saturday that
the PM had also lost control of his party over Europe and was "running scared"
of this backbenchers.

Bob Woollard, chairman of the Conservative Grassroots organisation, headed a
group of more than 30 serving and former constituency association chairmen who
handed a letter in to Downing Street yesterday calling for gay marriage plans to
be scrapped.

cDmst s He demanded: "Do I look like a mad, swivel-eyed loon? I don't know who
said that, but whoever said that, if it was somebody close to David Cameron, the
Prime Minister needs to disassociate himself from those words, reprimand the
person and if the person isn't prepared to give a fulsome apology, sack them."

He said same sex marriage was a "tipping point" that has forced many to say:
"I've had enough, I'm off, I will never vote Conservative again."

UKIP has also seized on the "swiveleyed" jibe. Its leader Nigel Farage - who
himself quit the Conservatives in 1992 over Maastricht - has called on other
disgruntled members to join him.

Up to 200 Tories are set to defy Mr Cameron on gay marriage today, including at
least two Cabinet ministers, Owen Paterson and David Jones, and probably a
third, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond. Justice Secretary Chris Grayling is
expected to back BID? 3 Boris amendments that will let public sector workers
refuse to carry out gay marriages. Traditional right-wing Tories see the vote as
their best chance of killing off same-sex weddings, which are due to start next
summer. Any changes would mean Whitehall and Town Hall computer systems having
to be updated.

The Treasury would also face finding an extra £4billion in public sector pension
payments, a cost that will be even greater for private firms.

Tory MP Jackie Doyle-Price yesterday said that while she had always "been in
favour of marriage equality" she could not support the gay marriage Bill because
it was such "a mess".

3 THE Prime Minister has threatened to collapse the Coalition as he struggles to
deal with his Lib Dem partners as well as his own MPs.

Mr Cameron told Total Politics: "What matters to me, is can we get things done?
Can we improve the state of the country? Can we fulfil our manifesto? "The best
way to do that is to continue with the Coalition, but if that wasn't the case
we'd have to face the new circumstances in whatever way we should."

I don't know if it was said as a joke but it belies an attitude of mind BRIAN
BINLEY MP it

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DENIAL J PM's pal Lord Feldman
COWARDY JCUSTER PM has bent to the right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

HOWE: CAM IS LOSING CONTROL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 102 words


FORMER Tory foreign secretary Lord Howe says David Cameron is losing control of
his party as its "long, nervous breakdown" on Europe continues.

Referring to the PM's plan to hold an EU referendum by 2017, he said he had let
Euroscepticism "infect the very soul of the party".

"By making it clear that he opposes the current terms of membership the Prime
Minister has opened a Pandora's box politically and seems to be losing control,"
he declared in an interview.

BANK of England Governor Mervyn King says the Tory Help to Buy scheme, in which
the State guarantees up to 15% of some mortgages, must not become permanent.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU FEELING OKAY?

BYLINE: Fiona Phillips

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 146 words


PLEASE can you tell me whether the promise of a referendum on membership of the
EU is the most important thing in your life? Is it something you regret was not
included in the Queen's speech?

If it is I suspect you might be suffering from a deadly disease. It's a
recurring illness - the last outbreak occurred between 1979 and 1997. It's
called Toryetonitis.

The main symptoms include a staggering ignorance as to what worries most people,
a belief that greedy businesses are the best bodies to run public services and a
deluded sense that crushing the poor will somehow help the economy to grow.

I wouldn't bother looking for a cure - the NHS is suffering from a different
strain of the same infection. It's called Privatisation.

The national rail service was infected with it 20 years ago... And never
recovered.

Your only hope is to plot a revolution. Or to get a reality check.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

EU FEELING OKAY?

BYLINE: Fiona Phillips

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 146 words


PLEASE can you tell me whether the promise of a referendum on membership of the
EU is the most important thing in your life? Is it something you regret was not
included in the Queen's speech? If it is I suspect you might be suffering from a
deadly disease. It's a recurring illness - the last outbreak occurred between
1979 and 1997. It's called Toryetonitis.

The main symptoms include a staggering ignorance as to what worries most people,
a belief that greedy businesses are the best bodies to run public services and a
deluded sense that crushing the poor will somehow help the economy to grow.

I wouldn't bother looking for a cure - the NHS is suffering from a different
strain of the same infection. It's called Privatisation.

The national rail service was infected with it 20 years ago... And never
recovered.

Your only hope is to plot a revolution. Or to get a reality check.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE civil war over Europe [...]

BYLINE: Paul Routledge

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 55 words


THE civil war over Europe within the Tory Party is as good as a play, but it
diverts attention from Labour's lack of a policy on the burning issue of an
"in-out" referendum on UK membership of the EU. It's high time Ed Miliband came
out fighting for a vote of the people in favour of social Europe, the defender
of rights at work.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Better off in Europe;
your letters

BYLINE: FIONA PARKER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 507 words


HAS the Tory party gone mad or does it have a death wish to lose the next
general election?

Most people I know don't care about EU membership, they care about jobs, young
people's futures and care for the elderly and infirm.

The eurozone needs reforming, particularly the single currency, but if we leave
we will have no input.

Even the US has signalled it wishes us to remain part of the union.

Valerie Crews, Beckenham, Kent

I VIVIDLY remember voting to join the Common Market, but I don't remember voting
for the European Union. How did that happen?

Now the Prime Minister is talking about giving the electorate a referendum on
something that it never agreed to in the first place.

We keep hearing about all the jobs the EU provides, but I wish someone would
tell me where they are.

John Edwards Pontypridd, South Wales

SO, the Tory eurosceptics are gaining ground against the Prime Minister on EU
membership.

They're also moving closer to UKIP, claiming that pulling out of Europe will
benefit the UK. But in reality they only want to protect British banks from a
European tax on financial transactions.

They don't give two hoots about the tens of thousands of people who could lose
their jobs if manufacturers leave the UK in the wake of the Government quitting
the union.

Labour should call for an election and let the British people decide.

Malcolm Hodgson Cramlington, Northumberland

EUROSCEPTICS should be careful what they wish for.

Europeans must be sick of the British right-wing and its interminable moaning -
I know I am. I hope our continental siblings draw a line in the sand and tell
the Tories to put up or shut up. No deals, no opt-outs, just pipe down or go.

Anti-Europeans will find a world run by the US, China, India and Russia is a
cold and lonely place for little Britain, which has only delusions of grandeur
to keep it warm.

D Sawtell, Tydd St. Giles, Cambs

I'M a socialist, but fair play to the eurosceptics. I, like many others, want to
be free of the federal Europe dreamed up by the French economist Jean Monnet.
I'm sick of it.

Letting our population grow so much in such a short space of time without so
much as a thought for the consequences was pure folly.

With Labour still backing the European Union, the public has no choice but to
say good luck to UKIP.

Dick Waring, Portsmouth

IF the lunatics take over the asylum and pull us out of Europe, what will happen
to the three million British jobs linked to exporting goods there? Hopefully the
people who lose out will be better served by the Tories than the miners were.

Noel Beresford Chesterfield

I FIND it quite pathetic that UKIP, a party without a single MP, is calling the
shots and setting the agenda with regards to a referendum on Europe. David
Cameron needs to get a grip on the eurosceptics in his party.

P Green, Lurgan, Co Armagh

The BIG issue

THE PM suffered his second biggest revolt as 116 Tory MPs voted for an amendment
to the Queen's Speech, criticising his dithering on an EU referendum. Most of
you say pulling out of Europe would be a disaster for our economy...

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU fixation;
VOICE OF THE voice@mirror.co.uk

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 79 words


EUROPE is the issue which gets obsessive Tory MPs out of bed.

Not living standards, jobs, health, education, crime, transport, housing, food
prices, energy bills, vandalism, dangerous dogs or pensions but Europe.

Hapless Tory James Wharton was given a hospital pass when a referendum Bill was
foisted upon him by David Cameron.

Mr Cameron resembles John Major more every day and he will be devoured by an
irrelevant obsession with a subject which matters little to most voters.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU HAVEN'T HEARD THE LAST OF US;
116 Tory rebels warn Cam over Euro poll

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS; TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 373 words


DAVID Cameron suffered a crushing blow to his authority last night when 116 Tory
MPs defied him in a Commons vote on Europe.

And the rebel backbenchers rubbed salt in the wound by vowing to keep fighting
until they get new laws paving the way for a poll on EU membership. Ringleader
John Baron said: "We are not going to walk away."

The Prime Minister's desperate efforts to head off the mutiny failed as a
majority of his backbenchers voted to rebuke the Government for failing to act
on a referendum.

Speaking on a trip to the US just before the vote, the PM claimed: "I don't
think people can read in anything really to the scale of that free vote." But it
was the second biggest revolt of Mr Cameron's reign and came despite a series of
humiliating concession to anti-EU backbenchers.

Renegade MP Nadine Dorries twisted the knife by saying she would look to stand
as a joint candidate with the UK Independence Party at the next election.

Earlier Lib Dem Deputy PM Nick Clegg dramatically shifted his ground on a
referendum. Standing in for the PM he said a referendum was now inevitable and
the argument was "when not if".

But party sources insisted Mr Clegg would not back laws paving the way for a
poll before 2015, general election year.

Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls said the huge Tory support for a rebel amendment to
the Government's own Queen's Speech showed Mr Cameron was presiding over a
"complete and utter shambles".

Ministers were allowed to abstain to avoid a Cabinet split while MPs and
Parliamentary aides were publicly told they had a free vote while whips twisted
arms in private.

Mr Balls said: "This is really what it means for a Prime Minister to be in
office but not in power. It is not John Major all over again, it is much worse
than that. At least he tried to stand up to the Eurosceptics."

A total of 130 MPs backed the amendment expressing regret the Queen's Speech did
not contain legislation on a referendum. It was defeated by 277 with Labour and
Lib Dem support.

Veteran former Lib Dem leader Sir Menzies Campbell said: "This is the first time
I have voted for a Prime Minister to defend him from his own party."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 10

Mr This is not John Major all over again.. It is much worse than that ED BALLS a

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REVOLT Nadine Dorries

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

EU HAVEN'T HEARD THE LAST OF US;
116 Tory rebels warn Cam over Euro poll

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS; TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 373 words


DAVID Cameron suffered a crushing blow to his authority last night when 116 Tory
MPs defied him in a Commons vote on Europe.

And the rebel backbenchers rubbed salt in the wound by vowing to keep fighting
until they get new laws paving the way for a poll on EU membership. Ringleader
John Baron said: "We are not going to walk away."

The Prime Minister's desperate efforts to head off the mutiny failed as a
majority of his backbenchers voted to rebuke the Government for failing to act
on a referendum.

Speaking on a trip to the US just before the vote, the PM claimed: "I don't
think people can read in anything really to the scale of that free vote." But it
was the second biggest revolt of Mr Cameron's reign and came despite a series of
humiliating concession to anti-EU backbenchers.

Renegade MP Nadine Dorries twisted the knife by saying she would look to stand
as a joint candidate with the UK Independence Party at the next election.

Earlier Lib Dem Deputy PM Nick Clegg dramatically shifted his ground on a
referendum. Standing in for the PM he said a referendum was now inevitable and
the argument was "when not if".

But party sources insisted Mr Clegg would not back laws paving the way for a
poll before 2015, general election year.

Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls said the huge Tory support for a rebel amendment to
the Government's own Queen's Speech showed Mr Cameron was presiding over a
"complete and utter shambles".

Ministers were allowed to abstain to avoid a Cabinet split while MPs and
Parliamentary aides were publicly told they had a free vote while whips twisted
arms in private.

Mr Balls said: "This is really what it means for a Prime Minister to be in
office but not in power. It is not John Major all over again, it is much worse
than that. At least he tried to stand up to the Eurosceptics."

A total of 130 MPs backed the amendment expressing regret the Queen's Speech did
not contain legislation on a referendum. It was defeated by 277 with Labour and
Lib Dem support.

Veteran former Lib Dem leader Sir Menzies Campbell said: "This is the first time
I have voted for a Prime Minister to defend him from his own party."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 10

Mr This is not John Major all over again.. It is much worse than that ED BALLS a

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REVOLT Nadine Dorries

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAMERON 'IN PANIC' OVER EURO REVOLT;
Tory revolt fear over referendum vote

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE ; JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 368 words


DAVID Cameron was in disarray over Europe last night after Tory backbenchers
rejected his latest olive branch ahead of a crunch Commons vote.

The panicking Prime Minister flew a political aide back from his tour of the US
in a bid to contain the damage from the showdown over a referendum on EU
membership.

Mr Cameron has rushed out a draft bill paving the way for a nationwide vote in
2017 in a desperate bid to head off the rebellion.

Voters would be asked: "Do you think the United Kingdom should remain a member
of the European Union?" But Eurosceptic Tories declared the concession was not
good enough and yesterday around 80 Tories signed an amendment saying the
legislation should have been in the Queen's Speech.

Rebel ringleaders claimed they were on course to hit Mr Cameron with his worst
ever revolt involving more than 100 Tory MPs when the amdendment is put to the
vote today.

Right-winger Philip Hollobone slammed Mr Cameron's handling of the issue, saying
the rebel amendment had "forced the Prime Minister's hand".

Mr Hollobone added: "It is undignified and there is some chaos in Number 10 this
week."

Mr Cameron was forced to deny he had lost control of his party and been
"panicked" into rushing out the EU referendum Bill as the issue overshadowed his
trip to the US.

He said: "If this was a Conservative -only government we would just get on and
legislate. We can't do that because we are in coalition.

"But I have always said that anything we can do to strengthen, add credibility
to the pledge, we should do."

Mr Cameron rejected as "completely wrong" the idea that he was constantly
shifting his position under pressure from his rank-and-file.

He added: "It is in the national interest to change Europe and change the
relationship with Europe."

Labour and the Lib Dems will join forces to vote against the rebel Tory
amendment.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Douglas Alexander said: "David Cameron's weakness has
turned a European issue into a leadership issue.

"This latest step has more to do with David Cameron trying to get his party back
in line rather than getting the economy back on track."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

It is undignified and there is some chaos in Number 10 this week PHILIP
HOLLOBONE

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORRY PM in US yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CAMERON 'IN PANIC' OVER EURO REVOLT;
PM faces showdown with Tory rebels

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE; JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 367 words


DAVID Cameron was in disarray over Europe last night after Tory backbenchers
rejected his latest olive branch ahead of a crunch Commons vote.

The panicking Prime Minister flew a political aide back from his tour of the US
in a bid to contain the damage from the showdown over a referendum on EU
membership.

Mr Cameron has rushed out a draft bill paving the way for a nationwide vote in
2017 in a desperate bid to head off the rebellion.

Voters would be asked: "Do you think the United Kingdom should remain a member
of the European Union?" But Eurosceptic Tories declared the concession was not
good enough and yesterday around 80 Tories signed an amendment saying the
legislation should have been in the Queen's Speech.

Rebel ringleaders claimed they were on course to hit Mr Cameron with his worst
ever revolt involving more than 100 Tory MPs when the amendment is put to the
vote today.

Right-winger Philip Hollobone slammed Mr Cameron's handling of the issue, saying
the rebel amendment had "forced the Prime Minister's hand".

Mr Hollobone added: "It is undignified and there is some chaos in Number 10 this
week."

Mr Cameron was forced to deny he had lost control of his party and been
"panicked" into rushing out the EU referendum Bill as the issue overshadowed his
trip to the US.

He said: "If this was a Conservative -only government we would just get on and
legislate. We can't do that because we are in coalition.

"But I have always said that anything we can do to strengthen, add credibility
to the pledge, we should do."

Mr Cameron rejected as "completely wrong" the idea that he was constantly
shifting his position under pressure from his rank-and-file.

He added: "It is in the national interest to change Europe and change the
relationship with Europe."

Labour and the Lib Dems will join forces to vote against the rebel Tory
amendment.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Douglas Alexander said: "David Cameron's weakness has
turned a European issue into a leadership issue.

"This latest step has more to do with David Cameron trying to get his party back
in line rather than getting the economy back on track."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

It is undignified and there is some chaos in No10 this week PHILIP HOLLOBONE

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORRY PM in US yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PM PANIC AT EURO REVOLT

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 172 words


DAVID Cameron was in disarray over Europe last night after Tory backbenchers
rejected his latest olive branch ahead of a crunch Commons vote.

The panicking Prime Minister flew a political aide back from his tour of the US
in a bid to contain the damage from the showdown over a referendum on EU
membership.

Mr Cameron has rushed out a draft bill paving the way for a nationwide vote in
2017 in a desperate bid to head off the rebellion. Voters would be asked: "Do
you think the United Kingdom should remain a member of the EU?" But Eurosceptic
Tories declared the concession was not good enough and around 80 Tories signed
an amendment saying the legislation should have been in the Queen's Speech.

Rebel ringleaders claimed they were on course to hit Mr Cameron with his worst
ever revolt involving more than 100 Tory MPs when the amdendment is put to the
vote today.

Right-winger Philip Hollobone slammed Mr Cameron's handling of the issue, saying
that the rebel amendment had "forced the Prime Minister's hand".

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORRY J PMINUS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAM CAVES IN TO REBELS ON EU D-DAY POLL;
PM drafts in-out referendum bill

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 309 words


DAVID Cameron will today try to head off the Tory revolt over Europe by
publishing a draft bill for an in-out referendum on Britain's membership of the
EU.

The cave-in comes as the PM battled to regain control of his party. He has been
rocked by a huge revolt from his own MPs after more than 70 backed an amendment
expressing regret there was no such bill in last week's Queen's Speech. Tory
sources said they might even use a Private Member's Bill to get the legislation
through the Commons.

A senior source said: "The Conservative Party will today publish a draft Bill
legislating for an in-out referendum by the end of 2017.

"We will examine all opportunities to bring this before Parliament."

But the source admitted Nick Clegg had not been told of the plans. The Lib Dems
are expected to fight giving the Bill time to be heard in Parliament.

The late move may not be enough to satisfy the growing number of Tories who want
an in-out vote now, including Education Secretary Michael Gove.

Mr Cameron had previously indicated the Bill would not be introduced to
Parliament until after the 2015 general election, if he was re-elected. But he
insisted a referendum this year was "not in the national interest".

Yesterday Barack Obama waded into the row to warn Britain would lose its
influence in the world if it quit the EU.

The US President used a joint White House press conference with Mr Cameron to
suggest the "special relationship" between the US and the UK hinged on Britain
being at the heart of Europe.

DAVID Cameron will today team up with Prince Harry in New York to bang the drum
for British business. Harry has been a big hit in America on his eight-day visit
and the Prime Minister will hope the stardust rubs off on him.

Mr Cameron yesterday visited the site of last month's Boston marathon bombings
to pay his respects.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CAM CAVES IN TO REBELS ON EU D-DAY POLL;
PM drafts in-out referendum bill

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words


DAVID Cameron will today try to head off a Tory revolt over Europe by publishing
a desperate draft bill for an in-out referendum on Britain's membership of the
EU.

During his American visit, the PM has been hit by a revolt from his own MPs at
home after more than 70 backed an amendment expressing regret there was no such
bill in the Queen's Speech.

A senior Tory source said: "We will today publish a draft Bill legislating for
an in-out referendum by 2018."

But the source admitted Nick Clegg had not been told of the plans.

And last night there were few signs that the late move would satisfy the growing
number of Conservatives who want an in-out vote now, including Education
Secretary Michael Gove.

Tory sources said they might even use a Private Member's Bill to get their
amendment through the Commons.

But Mr Cameron's draft Referendum Bill was dismissed by many mutinous Tory MPs
and the Liberal Democrats before it was even published. John Baron, behind the
rebel amendment, said the PM's draft was simply not enough.

He said: "The better option would be for the Government to have the courage to
support Wednesday's amendment."

Mr Cameron had previously indicated the Bill would not be introduced to
Parliament until after the 2015 general election, if he was re-elected.

But he insisted a referendum this year was "not in the national interest".

Shadow Foreign Secretary Douglas Alexander said: "This seems to be just the
latest panicked response from the Prime Minister who is now following, rather
than leading his backbenchers.

Yesterday Barack Obama warned Britain would lose its global if it quit the EU.
The President suggested the UK's "special US relationship" hinged on Britain
being at the heart of Europe.

DAVID Cameron will today team up with Prince Harry in New York to bang the drum
for British business.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

CAM CAVES IN TO REBELS ON EU D-DAY POLL;
PM drafts in-out referendum bill

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 309 words


DAVID Cameron will today try to head off the Tory revolt over Europe by
publishing a draft bill for an in-out referendum on the UK's membership of the
EU.

The cave-in comes as the PM battled to regain control of his party. He has been
rocked by a huge revolt from his own MPs after more than 70 backed an amendment
expressing regret there was no such bill in last week's Queen's Speech. Tory
sources said they might even use a Private Member's Bill to get the legislation
through the Commons.

A senior source said: "The Conservative Party will today publish a draft Bill
legislating for an in-out referendum by the end of 2017.

"We will examine all opportunities to bring this before Parliament."

But the source admitted Nick Clegg had not been told of the plans. The Lib Dems
are expected to fight giving the Bill time to be heard in Parliament.

The late move may not be enough to satisfy the growing number of Tories who want
an in-out vote now, including Education Secretary Michael Gove.

Mr Cameron had previously indicated the Bill would not be introduced to
Parliament until after the 2015 general election, if he was re-elected. But he
insisted a referendum this year was "not in the national interest".

Yesterday Barack Obama waded into the row to warn Britain would lose its
influence in the world if it quit the EU.

The US President used a joint White House press conference with Mr Cameron to
suggest the "special relationship" between the US and the UK hinged on Britain
being at the heart of Europe.

3 DAVID Cameron will today team up with Prince Harry in New York to bang the
drum for British business. Harry has been a big hit in America on his eight-day
visit and the Prime Minister will hope the stardust rubs off on him.

Mr Cameron yesterday visited the site of last month's Boston marathon bombings
to pay his respects.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CABINET CHAOS: TWO MINISTERS WANT OUT OF EU;
Gove and Hammond break ranks over Queen's Speech

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 393 words


SENIOR Tories Michael Gove and Philip Hammond yesterday defied David Cameron
after they admitted they would vote to quit the European Union.

The Cabinet ministers' remarks were in contrast to the Prime Minister's
declaration he would "fight heart and soul" to stay in Europe if he could win
back powers from Brussels.

Education Secretary Mr Gove was the first to speak out when asked if he would
vote to leave Europe in a referendum.

He told the BBC: "Yes, I'm not happy with our position in the European Union.

"My preference is for a change in Britain's relationship with the European
Union.

"My ideal is exactly what the majority of the public's ideal is, which is to
recognise the current situation is not good, to say life outside would be
perfectly tolerable."

He added: "We could contemplate it, there would be certain advantages.

Later, Defence Secretary Mr Hammond backed Mr Gove. He said: "If the choice is
between a European Union written exactly as it is today and not being part of
that I have to say I'm on the side of the argument Michael Gove put forward."

The revelations came amid anger on the Tory backbenches over the Government's
refusal to pass a law guaranteeing an in-out referendum after the 2015 election.

About 100 Tories are expected to back a rebel amendment to the Queen's Speech,
drawn up by eurosceptic MPs, which will "express regret" the Government did not
commit to making that step.

Downing Street has ordered ministers to abstain from the vote, which could take
place this week.

Mr Gove said he would not vote on the amendment but insisted the rebel MPs were
just "letting off steam" and rejected accusations of civil war within the party
over Europe.

Sym Former Defence Secretary Liam Fox yesterday became the most senior Tory
figure to say he would vote for the amendment.

The turmoil came as Mr Cameron prepared to visit the US this week to meet
President Barack Obama and call for a free trade deal between the US and EU.

cpbt Labour Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls said the Tory party was "losing its
marbles" by obsessing on Europe when the economy was in crisis.

He also refused to rule out Labour going into the election Lpromising a
referendum on the EU.

A group of Labour MPs, led by Home Affairs Select Committee chairman Keith Vaz,
has urged leader Ed Miliband to make such a pledge in the next manifesto.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANTI Defence Secretary Philip Hammond
ANTI Education Secretary Michael Gove

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Eu-less lot;
VOICE OF THE voice@mirror.co.uk

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 103 words


CONSERVATIVE Cabinet Ministers queuing up to claim they'd vote to leave Europe
if a referendum was held now is a victory for Nigel Farage.

The leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party, not David Cameron, is
calling the shots in a Tory Party running wildly about like headless chickens.

Education Secretary Michael Gove and Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, both
spoken of as future Tory leaders, know their words will please party grassroots,
so there is a sniff of ambition in their statements.

But as Conservative austerity kills the economy, the Tory-Ukip mad obsession
with Europe renders both unfit to govern.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CABINET CHAOS: TWO MINISTERS WANT OUT OF EU;
Gove and Hammond break ranks over Queen's Speech

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words


SENIOR Tories Michael Gove and Philip Hammond yesterday defied David Cameron
after they admitted they would vote to quit the European Union.

The Cabinet ministers' remarks were in contrast to the Prime Minister's
declaration he would "fight heart and soul" to stay in Europe if he could win
back powers from Brussels.

Education Secretary Mr Gove was the first to speak out when asked if he would
vote to leave Europe in a referendum.

He told the BBC: "Yes, I'm not happy with our position in the European Union.

"My preference is for a change in Britain's relationship with the European
Union.

"My ideal is exactly what the majority of the public's ideal is, which is to
recognise the current situation is not good, to say life outside would be
perfectly tolerable."

He added: "We could contemplate it, there would be certain advantages.

Later, Defence Secretary Mr Hammond backed Mr Gove. He said: "If the choice is
between a European Union written exactly as it is today and not being part of
that I have to say I'm on the side of the argument Michael Gove put forward."

The revelations came amid anger on the Tory backbenches over the Government's
refusal to pass a law guaranteeing an in-out referendum after the 2015 election.

About 100 Tories are expected to back a rebel amendment to the Queen's Speech,
drawn up by eurosceptic MPs, which will "express regret" the Government did not
commit to making that step.

Downing Street has ordered ministers to abstain from the vote, which could take
place this week.

Mr Gove said he would not vote on the amendment but insisted the rebel MPs were
just "letting off steam" and rejected accusations of civil war within the party
over Europe.

Sym Former Defence Secretary Liam Fox yesterday became the most senior Tory
figure to say he would vote for the amendment.

The turmoil came as Mr Cameron prepared to visit the US this week to meet
President Barack Obama and call for a free trade deal between the US and EU.

Labour Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls said the Tory party was "losing its marbles"
by obsessing on Europe when the economy was in crisis.

He also refused to rule out Labour going into the election Lpromising a
referendum on the EU.

A group of Labour MPs, led by Home Affairs Select Committee chairman Keith Vaz,
has urged leader Ed Miliband to make such a pledge in the next manifesto.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANTI Defence Secretary Philip Hammond
ANTI Education Secretary Michael Gove

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

CABINET CHAOS: TWO MINISTERS WANT OUT OF EU;
Gove and Hammond break ranks over Queen's Speech

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 393 words


SENIOR Tories Michael Gove and Philip Hammond yesterday defied David Cameron
after they admitted they would vote to quit the European Union.

The Cabinet ministers' remarks were in contrast to the Prime Minister's
declaration he would "fight heart and soul" to stay in Europe if he could win
back powers from Brussels.

Education Secretary Mr Gove was the first to speak out when asked if he would
vote to leave Europe in a referendum.

He told the BBC: "Yes, I'm not happy with our position in the European Union.

"My preference is for a change in Britain's relationship with the European
Union.

"My ideal is exactly what the majority of the public's ideal is, which is to
recognise the current situation is not good, to say life outside would be
perfectly tolerable."

He added: "We could contemplate it, there would be certain advantages.

Later, Defence Secretary Mr Hammond backed Mr Gove. He said: "If the choice is
between a European Union written exactly as it is today and not being part of
that I have to say I'm on the side of the argument Michael Gove put forward."

The revelations came amid anger on the Tory backbenches over the Government's
refusal to pass a law guaranteeing an in-out referendum after the 2015 election.

About 100 Tories are expected to back a rebel amendment to the Queen's Speech,
drawn up by eurosceptic MPs, which will "express regret" the Government did not
commit to making that step.

Downing Street has ordered ministers to abstain from the vote, which could take
place this week.

Mr Gove said he would not vote on the amendment but insisted the rebel MPs were
just "letting off steam" and rejected accusations of civil war within the party
over Europe.

Sym Former Defence Secretary Liam Fox yesterday became the most senior Tory
figure to say he would vote for the amendment.

The turmoil came as Mr Cameron prepared to visit the US this week to meet
President Barack Obama and call for a free trade deal between the US and EU.

cpbt Labour Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls said the Tory party was "losing its
marbles" by obsessing on Europe when the economy was in crisis.

He also refused to rule out Labour going into the election Lpromising a
referendum on the EU.

A group of Labour MPs, led by Home Affairs Select Committee chairman Keith Vaz,
has urged leader Ed Miliband to make such a pledge in the next manifesto.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANTI Defence Secretary Philip Hammond
ANTI Education Secretary Michael Gove

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Eu-less lot;
VOICE OF THE voice@mirror.co.uk

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 103 words


CONSERVATIVE Cabinet Ministers queuing up to claim they'd vote to leave Europe
if a referendum was held now is a victory for Nigel Farage.

The leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party, not David Cameron, is
calling the shots in a Tory Party running wildly about like headless chickens.

Education Secretary Michael Gove and Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, both
spoken of as future Tory leaders, know their words will please party grassroots,
so there is a sniff of ambition in their statements.

But as Conservative austerity kills the economy, the Tory-Ukip mad obsession
with Europe renders both unfit to govern.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP RACE ROW FURY;
Councillor faces sack as offensive Facebook rants are exposed

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 328 words


A NEW UKIP councillor has sparked outrage amid allegations he unleashed racist
abuse online.

Newly elected county councillor Eric Kitson triggered a furore over a cartoon of
a Muslim being spitroasted on a fire fuelled by copies of the Koran - which was
posted on his Facebook profile. It has also shown a string of anti-Jewish
remarks including false claims that the Rothschild banking dynasty had
controlled Nazi Germany's leader Adolf Hitler.

In one vile attack, Mr Kitson, a councillor for Stourport, Worcs, following his
election victory on May 2, said in a reference to Muslim women: "Hang um all
first then ask questions later."

In another post, he calls for a referendum to set up an English parliament,
Britain's withdrawal from the European Union and the repatriation of "six
million migrants and refugees".

The disgusting slurs will be a fresh embarrassment for UK Independence Party
leader Nigel Farage who has admitted that not all the party's candidates for the
local elections were properly vetted.

Mr Kitson even suggested that Mr Farage should consider uniting with Nick
Griffin, leader of the far-right British National Party.

A Labour source said: "There is no place in politics for these disgraceful,
racist attacks. It is up to Nigel Farage to clean up his party and avoid the
needless offence and hurt these kind of remarks cause."

EXPOSED In January, top UKIP official Dr Julia Gasper quit after her extremist
and offensive views were exposed by the Sunday Mirror.

Speaking at the time, Mr Farage condemned Dr Gasper's "unacceptable war" against
homosexuals. Mr Kitson last night refused to discuss the Facebook postings,
telling our reporter: "I don't want to talk to you. I'm watching the Cup Final."

A UKIP spokesman said of the councillor yesterday: "UKIP is investigating these
accusations which, if true, would render Mr Kitson unsuitable to sit as a UKIP
councillor and would lead to an immediate review of his party membership."

Furore...

Eric Kitson

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories' fossil is such a fuel

BYLINE: John Prescott

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 456 words


SO, after taking a bit of a kicking by UKIP, the Tory party is predictably going
back to what it does best... panicking about Europe.

This week we've seen former Chancellor Nigel Lawson come out and say we should
now leave the EU for good.

He wrote that British financial services and banking are being subjected to
"extremely damaging" EU regulations. He also said political integration among
members of the single currency makes no sense for Britain.

How times change! I remember back in 1975... him, Thatcher and the Conservatives
wholeheartedly campaigning to stay in Europe!

I campaigned for a referendum to take us out of the Common Market. I felt it
would inevitably lead to a federal Europe process and destroy Hull's fishing
industry. It did.

Lawson as Chancellor then paved the way to take us into the Exchange Rate
Mechanism - the first step towards monetary union and a federal Europe.

What happened? We were forced to pull out because our economy was too weak to
stay in it. Interest rates had shot up to 15 per cent and hundreds of thousands
of people lost their homes or were plunged into negative equity. It was a
disaster.

Lawson now says we must depend on banking growth - no doubt at the taxpayer's
expense again.

But he was the Chancellor from 1983 to 1989, who built up the economy to boom
and eventual bust. Lawson says the facts have changed, so he has. But it's not
the facts that have changed, it's his judgment.

It is exactly the same story with his approach to climate change. Lawson has
attacked 1,000 leading scientists on climate change for exaggerating the
problem.

But carbon dioxide, which causes global warming, is at its highest level in
human history.

Lawson, of course, is not a scientist, but he still established a "think tank"
called the Global Warming Policy Foundation, which has campaigned to stop
subsidies for alternatives to fossil fuels and to abandon the UK's emissions
reductions targets.

It even accused Prince Charles of being "out of touch with half the UK
population" for saying "corporate lobbyists" and climate change sceptics are
turning the earth into a "dying patient".

But Lawson's reluctant to name the people who finance his Global Warming Policy
Foundation. According to The Guardian, it received £1million in donations over
the past three years.

It also appears a company he was a director of until January, CET Capital
Limited, has worked for oil giants BP Amoco, Royal Dutch/Shell Group, Texaco and
TotalFinaElf.

These changes in Lawson's European outlook reflect a very short-term analysis
and a failure to address the long-term judgments.

People may well have legitimate concerns about Europe, but they shouldn't bother
listening to Lawson.

He climate changes his mind when he wants to!

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nonsense... Lawson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAM & PUTIN TERROR TALKS HAVE LIFT-OFF

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 175 words


of events like the dreadful bombs in Boston. The PM will offer America our
sympathies and discuss ways Britain and America can co-operate on dealing with
terrorism."

Mr Cameron is meeting world leaders before the G8 summit in Northern Ireland in
June.

Meanwhile, he has told cabinet ministers to abstain on an expected vote in the
Commons this week on whether Britain should get an EU referendum, to prevent
them joining a revolt by backbench Tory MPs.

will also discuss Syria and terrorism with US President Barack Obama when they
meet tomorrow.

A Whitehall source said: "Britain understands only too well the impact VLADIMIR
Putin and David Cameron hold truly high-level talks... in the Russian
president's helicopter.

The pair flew over the Black Sea resort of Sochi, where Russia will host the
2014 Winter Olympics for talks which focused on the crisis in Syria and tackling
terrorism.

The PM said relations between the UK and Russia had improved since 2006 when
Russian dissident Alexander Litvinenko died after drinking poisoned tea in
London. Mr Cameron

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Putin and Cameron on board helicopter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CAM & PUTIN TERROR TALKS HAVE LIFT-OFF

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 176 words


of events like the dreadful bombs in Boston. The PM will offer America our
sympathies and discuss ways Britain and America can co-operate on dealing with
terrorism."

Mr Cameron is meeting world leaders before the G8 summit in Northern Ireland in
June.

Meanwhile, he has told Cabinet ministers to abstain on an expected vote in the
Commons this week on whether Britain should have an EU referendum, to prevent
them joining a revolt by backbench Tory MPs.

will also discuss Syria and terrorism with US President Barack Obama when they
meet tomorrow.

A Whitehall source said: "Britain understands only too well the impact VLADIMIR
Putin and David Cameron hold truly high-level talks... in the Russian
president's helicopter.

The pair flew over the Black Sea resort of Sochi, where Russia will host the
2014 Winter Olympics, for talks which focused on the crisis in Syria and
tackling terrorism.

The PM said relations between the UK and Russia had improved since 2006 when
Russian dissident Alexander Litvinenko died after drinking poisoned tea in
London. Mr Cameron

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Putin and Cameron on board helicopter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

CAM & PUTIN TERROR TALKS HAVE LIFT-OFF

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 174 words


VLADIMIR Putin and David Cameron hold truly high-level talks... in the Russian
president's helicopter.

The pair flew over the Black Sea resort of Sochi, where Russia will host the
2014 Winter Olympics, for talks which focused on the crisis in Syria and
tackling terrorism.

The PM said relations between the UK and Russia had improved since 2006 when
Russian dissident Alexander Litvinenko died after drinking poisoned tea in
London. Mr Cameron will also discuss Syria and terrorism with US President
Barack Obama when they meet tomorrow.

A Whitehall source said: "Britain understands only too well the impact of events
like the dreadful bombs in Boston. The PM will offer America our sympathies and
discuss ways Britain and America can co-operate on dealing with terrorism."

Mr Cameron is meeting world leaders before the G8 summit in Fermanagh in June.

Meanwhile, he has told cabinet ministers to abstain on an expected vote in the
Commons this week on whether Britain should get an EU referendum, to prevent
them joining a revolt by backbench Tory MPs.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Putin and Cameron on board helicopter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Tories' fossil is such a fuel

BYLINE: John Prescott

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 456 words


SO, after taking a bit of a kicking by UKIP, the Tory party is predictably going
back to what it does best... panicking about Europe.

This week we've seen former Chancellor Nigel Lawson come out and say we should
now leave the EU for good.

He wrote that British financial services and banking are being subjected to
"extremely damaging" EU regulations. He also said political integration among
members of the single currency makes no sense for Britain.

How times change! I remember back in 1975... him, Thatcher and the Conservatives
wholeheartedly campaigning to stay in Europe!

I campaigned for a referendum to take us out of the Common Market. I felt it
would inevitably lead to a federal Europe process and destroy Hull's fishing
industry. It did.

Lawson as Chancellor then paved the way to take us into the Exchange Rate
Mechanism - the first step towards monetary union and a federal Europe.

What happened? We were forced to pull out because our economy was too weak to
stay in it. Interest rates had shot up to 15 per cent and hundreds of thousands
of people lost their homes or were plunged into negative equity. It was a
disaster.

Lawson now says we must depend on banking growth - no doubt at the taxpayer's
expense again.

But he was the Chancellor from 1983 to 1989, who built up the economy to boom
and eventual bust. Lawson says the facts have changed, so he has. But it's not
the facts that have changed, it's his judgment.

It is exactly the same story with his approach to climate change. Lawson has
attacked 1,000 leading scientists on climate change for exaggerating the
problem.

But carbon dioxide, which causes global warming, is at its highest level in
human history.

Lawson, of course, is not a scientist, but he still established a "think tank"
called the Global Warming Policy Foundation, which has campaigned to stop
subsidies for alternatives to fossil fuels and to abandon the UK's emissions
reductions targets.

It even accused Prince Charles of being "out of touch with half the UK
population" for saying "corporate lobbyists" and climate change sceptics are
turning the earth into a "dying patient".

But Lawson's reluctant to name the people who finance his Global Warming Policy
Foundation. According to The Guardian, it received £1million in donations over
the past three years.

It also appears a company he was a director of until January, CET Capital
Limited, has worked for oil giants BP Amoco, Royal Dutch/Shell Group, Texaco and
TotalFinaElf.

These changes in Lawson's European outlook reflect a very short-term analysis
and a failure to address the long-term judgments.

People may well have legitimate concerns about Europe, but they shouldn't bother
listening to Lawson.

He climate changes his mind when he wants to!

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nonsense... Lawson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

UKIP RACE ROW FURY;
Councillor faces sack as offensive Facebook rants are exposed

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 324 words


A NEW UKIP councillor has sparked outrage amid allegations he unleashed racist
abuse online.

Newly elected county councillor Eric Kitson triggered a furore over a cartoon of
a Muslim being spitroasted on a fire fuelled by copies of the Koran - which was
posted on his Facebook profile. It has also shown a string of anti-Jewish
remarks including false claims that the Rothschild banking dynasty had
controlled Nazi Germany's leader Adolf Hitler.

In one vile attack, Mr Kitson, a councillor for Stourport, Worcs, following his
election victory on May 2, said in a reference to Muslim women: "Hang um all
first then ask questions later."

In another post, he calls for a referendum to set up an English parliament,
Britain's withdrawal from the European Union and the repatriation of "six
million migrants and refugees".

The disgusting slurs will be a fresh embarrassment for UK Independence Party
leader Nigel Farage who has admitted that not all the party's candidates for the
local elections were properly vetted.

Mr Kitson even suggested that Mr Farage should consider uniting with Nick
Griffin, leader of the far-right British National Party.

A Labour source said: "There is no place in politics for these disgraceful,
racist attacks. It is up to Nigel Farage to clean up his party and avoid the
needless offence and hurt these kind of remarks cause."

EXPOSED

In January, top UKIP official Dr Julia Gasper quit after her extremist and
offensive views were exposed by the Sunday Mirror.

Speaking at the time, Mr Farage condemned Dr Gasper's "unacceptable war" against
homosexuals. Mr Kitson last night refused to discuss the Facebook postings,
telling our reporter: "I don't want to talk to you. I'm watching the Cup Final."

A UKIP spokesman said of the councillor yesterday: "UKIP is investigating these
accusations which, if true, would render Mr Kitson unsuitable to sit as a UKIP
councillor and would lead to an immediate review of his party membership."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ED: I WON'T BACK A VOTE ON EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 165 words


ED Miliband will today rule out supporting moves to guarantee an EU referendum
after the next general election.

The Labour leader will today accuse David Cameron of running scared of his MPs
after they attached a rebel amendment to the Queen's Speech, slamming the
Government for not mentioning plans to hold an in-out poll by 2017. But No10 has
insisted the PM is "relaxed" about it and could even support the amendment,
reportedly backed by up to 100 Tory MPs, even though he is likely to be out of
the country when the vote takes place.

Mr Miliband will today say: "We have an extraordinary spectacle of a Government
that says it is relaxed about its own MPs voting against its own Queen's Speech.
It beggars belief.

"He's not lying on the sofa, relaxed. He's hiding behind the sofa, too scared to
confront his own MPs."

Mr Miliband will "always stand up for national interest" - staying in the EU -
saying "four years of uncertainty and a 'closed for business' sign above our
country is "wrong".

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MOCKING Z Ed Miliband

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU will have to let us vote, Ed

BYLINE: Tony Parsons

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 105 words


IF Ed Miliband and Labour don't win the next General Election then they will
have missed one of the great open goals in political history.

There can be no deal between Nigel Farage and David Cameron. They despise each
other.

It looks like UKIP will bury Cameron and Miliband will step into 10 Downing
Street over the coffin.

But here's the problem for Ed Miliband - there has to be a referendum on our
membership of the European Union.

How can any Prime Minister duck it? Because anyone who doesn't believe in a
referendum on our membership of the EU obviously believes that the British
people are too ignorant to decide their destiny.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TORY REBELS FAST TRACK VOTE ON EU;
Pressure grows on Cam over early poll COALITION SPLIT 1

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 345 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday faced a fresh revolt as backbenchers called for an
immediate referendum on Britain quitting the EU.

In a direct challenge to the Prime Minister's authority, hardline Eurosceptics
are demanding a vote next week on an early referendum.

Downing Street claimed the PM was "relaxed" about the move and would not stop
Tory ministers joining the rebels.

But the issue threatens a major split with the Lib Dems and could see members of
the Government vote against their own Queen's Speech. The vote will take place
when Mr Cameron is on a US visit.

It is yet further evidence that he has lost control of his party and comes as a
string of senior Tory veterans, including Lord Lawson and Michael Portillo, have
called for the UK to leave the EU.

London Mayor Boris Johnson added to the pressure saying Britain should be
prepared to "walk away" from Brussels if it does not get the reforms it wants.
He said: "Democratically it would be a shot in the arm. People would suddenly
feel we're running our own destiny again."

Former Chancellor Lord Lamont went further, saying: "I would want to be out of
almost everything other than just a commercial relationship with Europe." A
pro-European Tory MP warned his party had a "terminal incurable disease" and was
facing destruction over the EU.

Lib Dems were angry at the Tory right hijacking the Queen's Speech to head off
the UKIP threat. A Lib Dem source said the Coalition should focus on "good
things in the Queen's Speech...not a continuing EU debate".

The Tory rebels want to vote through an amendment expressing "regret" the
Queen's Speech did not promise a referendum. The PM has promised an in-out vote
in 2017 if he is re-elected in 2015. But many Tory backbenchers want an earlier
vote to stop support seeping to UKIP.

Asked whether David Cameron would be "relaxed" about ministers backing the
amendment, his spokesman said: "The Prime Minister is relaxed about that, I
think the implication of that is clear."

I'd want to be out of almost everything other than a commercial relationship
with Europe LORD LAMONT

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOT IN THE ARM Mayor Boris Johnson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

TORY REBELS FAST TRACK VOTE ON EU;
Cam hit by demands for public poll by 2015

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 348 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday faced a fresh revolt as backbenchers called for an
immediate referendum on Britain quitting the EU.

In a direct challenge to the Prime Minister's authority, hardline Eurosceptics
are demanding a vote next week on an early referendum.

Downing Street claimed the PM was "relaxed" about the move and would not stop
Tory ministers joining the rebels.

COALITION SPLIT 1 But the issue threatens a major split with the Lib Dems and
could see members of the Government vote against their own Queen's Speech. The
vote will take place when Mr Cameron is on a US visit. It is yet further
evidence that he has lost control of his party and comes as a string of senior
Tory veterans, including Lord Lawson and Michael Portillo, have called for the
UK to leave the EU.

London Mayor Boris Johnson added to the pressure saying Britain should be
prepared to "walk away" from Brussels if it does not get the reforms it wants.
He said: "Democratically it would be a shot in the arm. People would suddenly
feel we're running our own destiny again."

Former Chancellor Lord Lamont went further, saying: "I would want to be out of
almost everything other than just a commercial relationship with Europe." A
pro-European Tory MP warned his party had a "terminal incurable disease" and was
facing destruction over the EU.

Lib Dems were angry at the Tory right hijacking the Queen's Speech to head off
the UKIP threat. A Lib Dem source said the Coalition should focus on "good
things in the Queen's Speech...not a continuing EU debate". The Tory rebels want
to vote through an amendment expressing "regret" the Queen's Speech did not
promise a referendum. The PM has promised an in-out vote in 2017 if he is
re-elected in 2015. But many Tory backbenchers want an earlier vote to stop
support seeping to UKIP.

Asked whether David Cameron would be "relaxed" about ministers backing the
amendment, his spokesman said: "The Prime Minister is relaxed about that, I
think the implication of that is clear."

I'd want to be out of almost everything other than a commercial relationship
with Europe LORD LAMONT

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOT IN THE ARM J Mayor Boris Johnson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

TORY REBELS FAST TRACK VOTE ON EU;
Cam hit by demands for public poll by 2015 COALITION SPLIT 1

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 345 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday faced a fresh revolt as backbenchers called for an
immediate referendum on Britain quitting the EU.

In a direct challenge to the Prime Minister's authority, hardline Eurosceptics
are demanding a vote next week on an early referendum.

Downing Street claimed the PM was "relaxed" about the move and would not stop
Tory ministers joining the rebels.

But the issue threatens a major split with the Lib Dems and could see members of
the Government vote against their own Queen's Speech. The vote will take place
when Mr Cameron is on a US visit.

It is yet further evidence that he has lost control of his party and comes as a
string of senior Tory veterans, including Lord Lawson and Michael Portillo, have
called for the UK to leave the EU.

London Mayor Boris Johnson added to the pressure saying Britain should be
prepared to "walk away" from Brussels if it does not get the reforms it wants.
He said: "Democratically it would be a shot in the arm. People would suddenly
feel we're running our own destiny again."

Former Chancellor Lord Lamont went further, saying: "I would want to be out of
almost everything other than just a commercial relationship with Europe." A
pro-European Tory MP warned his party had a "terminal incurable disease" and was
facing destruction over the EU.

Lib Dems were angry at the Tory right hijacking the Queen's Speech to head off
the UKIP threat. A Lib Dem source said the Coalition should focus on "good
things in the Queen's Speech...not a continuing EU debate".

The Tory rebels want to vote through an amendment expressing "regret" the
Queen's Speech did not promise a referendum. The PM has promised an in-out vote
in 2017 if he is re-elected in 2015. But many Tory backbenchers want an earlier
vote to stop support seeping to UKIP.

Asked whether David Cameron would be "relaxed" about ministers backing the
amendment, his spokesman said: "The Prime Minister is relaxed about that, I
think the implication of that is clear."

I'd want to be out of almost everything other than a commercial relationship
with Europe LORD LAMONT

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOT IN THE ARM Mayor Boris Johnson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Let's ask young for Euro vision

BYLINE: Brian Reade

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 474 words


IT wasn't the pomp or George Osborne's tears that stood out as I sat in St
Paul's watching Margaret Thatcher's funeral.

It was the sight of her 1980s Cabinet morphing into their Spitting Image
puppets. As they staggered in, hunched and jowled but still in awe of Her, I had
a brief visitation of a recurring nightmare: being back in the 1980s.

Three weeks on, you may be sharing that nightmare as one of the Spitting Image
puppets, Nigel Lawson, drags up the grim Thatcherite obsession that refuses to
go away: Europe.

And for once I'm glad. Because the time has come to settle this question for
good, before it bores us all, particularly the voters who weren't even born last
time we held a referendum on Europe, into a coma. But first, why is it
centre-stage again? Because an 81-year-old, more famous for having a celebrity
chef daughter than holding a Cabinet post 24 years ago, says he's changed his
mind on Europe. Mainly as he makes a living out of the City, and fears the EU
wants to punish bankers for the economic catastrophe they caused by regulating
them and capping their bonuses.

In other words, sod the three million jobs across the country which rely on
trade with the EU, let's concentrate on helping the City money men flourish.
Which is where he left off as Thatcher's chancellor in 1989.

The other reason it seems we should cut all ties with Europe is the overnight
success of a protest party whose policies do not stand up to scrutiny. Its
leader (another Nigel) tells us UKIP's time has come, despite winning approval
from only 23% of the 30% who bothered to vote in last week's mainly rural
elections.

Most of whom were old-school Tories who wanted to remind Cameron that "Britain
is full".

So what we have is a couple of doddering old Nigels playing on the fears of
middle-aged and OAP Europhobes to send a signal out that Britain must go it
alone.

Despite most businessmen telling us, as we're on the brink of a historic trade
deal between the EU and the USA, that it would be madness.

Well it's time to bring this referendum on. And instead of focusing on whether
the over-55s got what they voted for in 1975, let's concentrate on what world
the under-38s want Britain to be in in three decades time.

Let's get the arguments through to them and get them voting. They need to work
out where their apprenticeships, the businesses they may set up, the languages
they learn, will be best served.

In an economic market of 500 million, where the likes of China will want to put
its investment? Or outside it, on our own?

Let's strip away the emotion and the prejudices and finally work out what we
believe Britain's post-colonial place is in the 21st century. Let's make it less
about the noise from the Nigels and more about the needs of the Jamies and the
Jessies.

Because it's their future.

it's their future. it's not about two old nigels

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Portillo's EU exit call is a blow for PM;
EUROPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 97 words


SENIOR Tory Michael Portillo will today become the latest party heavyweight to
say Britain should leave the EU.

The former Defence Secretary says he backs Lord Lawson's call for the UK to end
its ties with Brussels.

He said: "Nigel Lawson says he'd vote in a referendum for Britain to leave the
European Union. So would I."

He also slammed David Cameron's pledge to hold a referendum on Europe in 2017 as
an "insincere ploy".

Writing in The Times, he added: "We all know that David Cameron was forced to
promise one because of pressures within his party after UKIP's strong poll
result."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Let's ask young for Euro vision

BYLINE: Brian Reade

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 474 words


IT wasn't the pomp or George Osborne's tears that stood out as I sat in St
Paul's watching Margaret Thatcher's funeral.

It was the sight of her 1980s Cabinet morphing into their Spitting Image
puppets. As they staggered in, hunched and jowled but still in awe of Her, I had
a brief visitation of a recurring nightmare: being back in the 1980s.

Three weeks on, you may be sharing that nightmare as one of the Spitting Image
puppets, Nigel Lawson, drags up the grim Thatcherite obsession that refuses to
go away: Europe.

And for once I'm glad. Because the time has come to settle this question for
good, before it bores us all, particularly the voters who weren't even born last
time we held a referendum on Europe, into a coma. But first, why is it
centre-stage again? Because an 81-year-old, more famous for having a celebrity
chef daughter than holding a Cabinet post 24 years ago, says he's changed his
mind on Europe. Mainly as he makes a living out of the City, and fears the EU
wants to punish bankers for the economic catastrophe they caused by regulating
them and capping their bonuses.

In other words, sod the three million jobs across the country which rely on
trade with the EU, let's concentrate on helping the City money men flourish.
Which is where he left off as Thatcher's chancellor in 1989.

The other reason it seems we should cut all ties with Europe is the overnight
success of a protest party whose policies do not stand up to scrutiny. Its
leader (another Nigel) tells us UKIP's time has come, despite winning approval
from only 23% of the 30% who bothered to vote in last week's mainly rural
elections.

Most of whom were old-school Tories who wanted to remind Cameron that "Britain
is full".

So what we have is a couple of doddering old Nigels playing on the fears of
middle-aged and OAP Europhobes to send a signal out that Britain must go it
alone.

Despite most businessmen telling us, as we're on the brink of a historic trade
deal between the EU and the USA, that it would be madness.

Well it's time to bring this referendum on. And instead of focusing on whether
the over-55s got what they voted for in 1975, let's concentrate on what world
the under-38s want Britain to be in in three decades time.

Let's get the arguments through to them and get them voting. They need to work
out where their apprenticeships, the businesses they may set up, the languages
they learn, will be best served.

In an economic market of 500 million, where the likes of China will want to put
its investment? Or outside it, on our own?

Let's strip away the emotion and the prejudices and finally work out what we
believe Britain's post-colonial place is in the 21st century. Let's make it less
about the noise from the Nigels and more about the needs of the Jamies and the
Jessies.

Because it's their future.

it's their future. it's not about two old nigels

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TORIES ROCKED BY CALLS TO QUIT EU;
Lawson sparks vicious battle

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 325 words


DAVID Cameron was hit by a fresh bout of Tory infighting yesterday after party
grandee Lord Lawson called for Britain to quit the EU.

The bombshell from the former EU supporter piled pressure on the Prime Minister
to rush forward a referendum on the UK's membership and reopened divisions in
his party on the toxic issue.

It also caused a deep divide in the Coalition, with Deputy PM Nick Clegg warning
that leaving the European Union would put the country's safety and prosperity at
risk.

Lord Lawson, Margaret Thatcher's Chancellor in the 1980s, said the EU was "past
its sell-by date". He added that quitting would be better for British jobs. The
peer also said he doubted Mr Cameron had the clout to force through reforms to
make the trading bloc less bureaucratic.

Lord Lawson's remarks came as the Tories were already in turmoil over how to
respond to the success of anti-EU party UKIP in last week's local elections.
Tory MPs lined up to back Lord Lawson, including backbencher Bernard Jenkin, who
said the "vast majority" would vote to leave the EU.

Mr Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum on the issue in 2017 if he is
re-elected as PM. But Mr Jenkin called for the timetable to be brought forward.

Fellow Tory MP Douglas Carswell said Lord Lawson's intervention showed it was
"game over" for Britain in the EU. But Conservative MP Margot James claimed Lord
Lawson's argument was "flawed".

Mr Clegg said leaving the EU would put three million jobs at risk. Lord Lawson
hit back by saying: "That's poppycock, but I don't think Nick Clegg, who's a
charming young man, has ever purported to know anything at all about economics."

Denying that Lord Lawson's remarks had helped UKIP, Mr Cameron said: "It's been
a good day for the pledge I have made, that if re-elected I will hold an in/out
referendum so everybody can have, not just a voice about Britain's future in
Europe, but also a vote about Britain's future in Europe."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST J Lord Lawson yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TORIES ROCKED BY CALLS TO QUIT EU;
Lawson sparks vicious battle

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 325 words


DAVID Cameron was hit by a fresh bout of Tory infighting yesterday after party
grandee Lord Lawson called for Britain to quit the EU.

The bombshell from the former EU supporter piled pressure on the Prime Minister
to rush forward a referendum on the UK's membership and reopened divisions in
his party on the toxic issue.

It also caused a deep divide in the Coalition, with Deputy PM Nick Clegg warning
that leaving the European Union would put the country's safety and prosperity at
risk.

Lord Lawson, Margaret Thatcher's Chancellor in the 1980s, said the EU was "past
its sell-by date". He added that quitting would be better for British jobs. The
peer also said he doubted Mr Cameron had the clout to force through reforms to
make the trading bloc less bureaucratic.

Lord Lawson's remarks came as the Tories were already in turmoil over how to
respond to the success of anti-EU party UKIP in last week's local elections.
Tory MPs lined up to back Lord Lawson, including backbencher Bernard Jenkin, who
said the "vast majority" would vote to leave the EU.

Mr Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum on the issue in 2017 if he is
re-elected as PM. But Mr Jenkin called for the timetable to be brought forward.

Fellow Tory MP Douglas Carswell said Lord Lawson's intervention showed it was
"game over" for Britain in the EU. But Conservative MP Margot James claimed Lord
Lawson's argument was "flawed".

Mr Clegg said leaving the EU would put three million jobs at risk. Lord Lawson
hit back by saying: "That's poppycock, but I don't think Nick Clegg, who's a
charming young man, has ever purported to know anything at all about economics."

Denying that Lord Lawson's remarks had helped UKIP, Mr Cameron said: "It's been
a good day for the pledge I have made, that if re-elected I will hold an in/out
referendum so everybody can have, not just a voice about Britain's future in
Europe, but also a vote about Britain's future in Europe."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 10

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST J Lord Lawson yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Lawson: We should vote to leave EU;
ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 113 words


TORY grandee Nigel Lawson today called for Britain to quit the European Union in
a blow to David Cameron.

Lord Lawson declared that the economic gains from leaving "would substantially
outweigh the costs".

Mr Cameron has said he can negotiate better terms ahead of a referendum after
the next election.

But Lord Lawson said that attempting to loosen ties with Brussels will cost the
UK our rebate and achieve little.

He said: "The very nature of the EU, and of this country's relationship with it,
has fundamentally changed after the European monetary union and the creation of
the eurozone, of which - quite rightly - we are not a part."

He added: "I shall be voting 'out' in 2017."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TORY PLEDGE TO BE NICE TO UKIP LASTS ONE DAY;
Osborne joke mocks party

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


BLUNDERING George Osborne has ruined the Prime Minister's bid to make peace with
UK Independence Party voters - by tweeting a clown picture to his followers.

The Chancellor's joke will deeply embarrass David Cameron.

He is keen to woo back UKIP supporters after veteran minister Ken Clarke
disastrously branded the party "clown like" in the run-up to last week's council
elections.

The PM himself once called them "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

A humbled Mr Cameron said sorry on Friday and insisted UKIP voters be treated
with respect after they angrily deserted the Tories at the polls.

But just a day later Mr Osborne posted the photo of the "circus section" of a
May Day parade in his well-heeled Cheshire constituency.

Showing he knew just what he was doing, Mr Osborne added: "No double meaning I
promise." It emerged Mr Osborne had been drinking before sending the tweet. His
previous Twitter message said: "Just tried new beer from my local Tatton
brewery. It's called Pennies from Eleven."

The gaffe came amid bitter Tory divisions over how to handle UKIP with some MPs
calling for an electoral pact that could only happen if the Prime Minister was
ousted.

Mr Cameron's team mock UKIP voters for their "simplistic world view" with one
top adviser branding them "life's losers", it was revealed yesterday.

But ex-leadership rival David Davis warned the PM to stop alienating UKIP
supporters. "It's got to start off by not being contemptuous of the people who
voted for UKIP.

"I mean, they weren't extremists, they were ordinary people," he said.

The former Shadow Home Secretary is one of 20 Tory MPs calling for a referendum
on EU membership before the next general election in a bid to halt UKIP's rise.

Foreign Secretary William Hague hinted his party will pave the way for a
referendum if they win the poll but insisted the Lib Dems would prevent a
referendum in this Parliament.

Meanwhile UKIP leader Nigel Farage said he will stand as an MP at the 2015
general election - but will not contest a by-election. Mr Farage has also said
he is ready to do a deal with the Tories if they dump Mr Cameron.

Key Cabinet ally Michael Gove said the idea of axing the PM was "bonkerooney".

But many Tory Right-wingers are eager to strike an electoral pact with UKIP.

One, Peter Bone, even suggested they stand as joint candidates.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POUT Z Nigel Farage yesterday
CHEEKY J The clown picture Osborne posted on Twitter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Don't get taken in by City boy Farage

BYLINE: Kevin Maguire

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 482 words


HER Maj reads the Queen's Speech on Wednesday but Nigel Farage's pub talk will
have greater impact on the final two years of a fading ConDem coalition.

Making plans for Nigel is obsessing panicking Thatcherite Tories who fear being
outflanked by UKIP's mercurial Turbo Tory.

The Conservative Party needs cool heads but shows weak bowels.

Farage, an ex-Tory member, may split the party by reopening old wounds.

UKIP shamefully playing the race card, scapegoating immigrants and poisonously
exaggerating how many Bulgarians and Romanians might come to Britain appeals to
many Con MPs.

Cameron issues another cast-iron guarantee of a referendum yet would campaign to
keep Britain in Europe when as many as a quarter of the PM's troops would pick
up spades with Farage to widen the English Channel and withdraw from the EU.

Farage would gift the wealthiest another tax cut and most Tories in Westminster
agree too that April's extra £42,500 for a millionaire earner wasn't - get this
- a big enough handout.

On dismantling the NHS, giving bosses greater freedom to sack staff, destroying
the welfare state, in fact all the Rightwing crazy issues, there are Tories in W
i h Westminster who politically prefer Farage to Cameron. To some extent that's
a failure by tribal Tories who hate Lib Dems to appreciate how far to the Right
Cameron already is. But it also reflects a shift to the Right in a Tory Party
turning into a US-style demonise the poor, champion the rich, hate government
Tea Party, now in rivalry with the UKIP Tea Pot Party.

Beer-swilling Farage is a more likable character than aloof Dave Snooty.

In the battle of the two privatelyeducated sons of stockbrokers the chap who
stands his round has an edge. Farage's appeal may wane when voters raLds realise
the insurgent is a product and champion of a greedy City of London which is
recklessly destroying their standard of living, secure jobs and public services.

Labour's best tactic is to summarise UKIP's Turbo Tory manifesto so that Labour
voters aren't fooled.

Ed Miliband at some point must decide whether to offer an EU referendum too,
with Labour's Shadow Cabinet split on the question.

But the bigger split in politics is on the Right, between the Cons and UKIP.

Labour would've liked to do better, yet it didn't do badly in last Thursday's
maelstrom.

On the calculations that matter most, Miliband's lot were 4% ahead of the Tories
- down on last year's 6% lead, though the Cons were 1% ahead as recently as
2011.

Labour gained council seats in areas where it must win Parliamentary seats,
places such as Ipswich and Cannock, Staffordshire.

Repeat last Thursday's results on May 7, 2015, and it would be Prime Minister
Miliband.

The Labour leadership may hate what UKIP stands for and should be nervous when
politics is turbulent, unpredictable. Labour also has most to lose if the UKIP
bubble bursts.

HIS APPEAL MAY WANE WHEN VOTERS REALISE

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TORY PLEDGE TO BE NICE TO UKIP LASTS ONE DAY;
Osborne joke mocks party

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


BLUNDERING George Osborne has ruined the Prime Minister's bid to make peace with
UK Independence Party voters - by tweeting a clown picture to his followers.

The Chancellor's joke will deeply embarrass David Cameron.

He is keen to woo back UKIP supporters after veteran minister Ken Clarke
disastrously branded the party "clown like" in the run-up to last week's council
elections.

The PM himself once called them "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

A humbled Mr Cameron said sorry on Friday and insisted UKIP voters be treated
with respect after they angrily deserted the Tories at the polls.

But just a day later Mr Osborne posted the photo of the "circus section" of a
May Day parade in his well-heeled Cheshire constituency.

Showing he knew just what he was doing, Mr Osborne added: "No double meaning I
promise." It emerged Mr Osborne had been drinking before sending the tweet. His
previous Twitter message said: "Just tried new beer from my local Tatton
brewery. It's called Pennies from Eleven."

The gaffe came amid bitter Tory divisions over how to handle UKIP with some MPs
calling for an electoral pact that could only happen if the Prime Minister was
ousted.

Mr Cameron's team mock UKIP voters for their "simplistic world view" with one
top adviser branding them "life's losers", it was revealed yesterday.

But ex-leadership rival David Davis warned the PM to stop alienating UKIP
supporters. "It's got to start off by not being contemptuous of the people who
voted for UKIP.

"I mean, they weren't extremists, they were ordinary people," he said.

The former Shadow Home Secretary is one of 20 Tory MPs calling for a referendum
on EU membership before the next general election in a bid to halt UKIP's rise.

Foreign Secretary William Hague hinted his party will pave the way for a
referendum if they win the poll but insisted the Lib Dems would prevent a
referendum in this Parliament.

Meanwhile UKIP leader Nigel Farage said he will stand as an MP at the 2015
general election - but will not contest a by-election. Mr Farage has also said
he is ready to do a deal with the Tories if they dump Mr Cameron.

Key Cabinet ally Michael Gove said the idea of axing the PM was "bonkerooney".

But many Tory Right-wingers are eager to strike an electoral pact with UKIP.

One, Peter Bone, even suggested they stand as joint candidates.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POUT Nigel Farage yesterday
CHEEKY The clown picture Osborne posted on Twitter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'I could do a deal with Tories but NEVER with Cameron';
UKIP LEADER FARAGE'S BLAST AT PM AFTER BATTERING CONSERVATIVES AT THE POLLS..
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 408 words


NIGEL Farage will demand PM David Cameron's head on a plate as the price of any
deal with the Tories, UKIP sources have revealed.

The threat comes after a huge surge in support for the anti-Europe party, which
saw it grab 139 council seats in Thursday's local elections.

Now senior Tories believe their only chance of holding power after the 2015
election rests on cutting a deal with the controversial party.

But a key ally of UKIP's leader Mr Farage said: "Nigel will do a deal with the
Devil if it works for the party and our supporters but he won't work with the
Tories if Cameron is leader. He wants his head on a plate."

The revelation will fuel the ambitions of rebel Tory MPs who want to oust Mr
Cameron as Tory leader. His potential successors include Home Secretary Theresa
May. Allies of the PM say he loathes Mr Farage, privately dismissing him as a
"spiv". Relations hit rock bottom after Mr Cameron branded UKIP backers as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists" in 2006.

The PM is now under intense pressure from his own MPs to speed ahead with a
planned "in or out" referendum on Britain's place in the European Union. At
present, the vote is not likely to happen until late 2017.

Home Secretary Mrs May yesterday dismissed the calls for a referendum, which
have been led by top Tory David Davis. But she admitted the public needed
"greater certainty" that it would happen at some point. Mr Davis warned Mr
Cameron to "break the impression of being privileged and out of touch" if he
hoped to recover from this week's election hammering.

The Conservatives lost 335 seats and surrendered control of 10 councils,
including Oxfordshire, Norfolk and Lincolnshire.

But Tory Party chiefs are plotting to halt the UKIP bandwagon by stopping Mr
Farage getting a place in TV debates for the next election. In 2010 the debates
were credited with giving Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg a huge popularity boost.

Tories are planning to persuade the BBC, ITV and Sky to limit the debates to Mr
Cameron and Labour leader Ed Miliband.

A Tory source said: "Only two people stand a chance of becoming Prime Minister -
David Cameron and Ed Miliband. The debate should be limited to those two alone."

But the plan will trigger fierce opposition from the Lib Dems and UKIP, who both
want a place in the televised clashes.

COMMENT: Page 14

HOW VOTERS SLAMMED CAM Party Councillors Change CON 1,116 -335 LABOUR 538 +291
LIB DEM 352 -124 UKIP 147 +139 GREEN 22 +5 OTHER 187 +24

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

' I could do a deal with Tories but NEVER with ' Cameron;
UKIP LEADER FARAGE'S BLAST AT PM AFTER BATTERING CONSERVATIVES AT THE POLLS..

BYLINE: VINCENT MOSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 408 words


NIGEL Farage will demand PM David Cameron's head on a plate as the price of any
deal with the Tories, UKIP sources have revealed.

The threat comes after a huge surge in support for the anti-Europe party, which
saw it grab 139 council seats in Thursday's local elections.

Now senior Tories believe their only chance of holding power after the 2015
election rests on cutting a deal with the controversial party.

But a key ally of UKIP's leader Mr Farage said: "Nigel will do a deal with the
Devil if it works for the party and our supporters but he won't work with the
Tories if Cameron is leader. He wants his head on a plate."

The revelation will fuel the ambitions of rebel Tory MPs who want to oust Mr
Cameron as Tory leader. His potential successors include Home Secretary Theresa
May. Allies of the PM say he loathes Mr Farage, privately dismissing him as a
"spiv". Relations hit rock bottom after Mr Cameron branded UKIP backers as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists" in 2006.

The PM is now under intense pressure from his own MPs to speed ahead with a
planned "in or out" referendum on Britain's place in the European Union. At
present, the vote is not likely to happen until late 2017.

Home Secretary Mrs May yesterday dismissed the calls for a referendum, which
have been led by top Tory David Davis. But she admitted the public needed
"greater certainty" that it would happen at some point. Mr Davis warned Mr
Cameron to "break the impression of being privileged and out of touch" if he
hoped to recover from this week's election hammering.

The Conservatives lost 335 seats and surrendered control of 10 councils,
including Oxfordshire, Norfolk and Lincolnshire.

But Tory Party chiefs are plotting to halt the UKIP bandwagon by stopping Mr
Farage getting a place in TV debates for the next election. In 2010 the debates
were credited with giving Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg a huge popularity boost.

Tories are planning to persuade the BBC, ITV and Sky to limit the debates to Mr
Cameron and Labour leader Ed Miliband.

A Tory source said: "Only two people stand a chance of becoming Prime Minister -
David Cameron and Ed Miliband. The debate should be limited to those two alone."

But the plan will trigger fierce opposition from the Lib Dems and UKIP, who both
want a place in the televised clashes.

COMMENT: Page 14 HOW VOTERS SLAMMED CAM Party Councillors Change CON 1,116 -335
LABOUR 538 +291 LIB DEM 352 -124 UKIP 147 +139 GREEN 22 +5 OTHER 187 +24

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 2, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cam rallies Tories with EU vote hint;
ELECTIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 98 words


A RATTLED David Cameron yesterday hinted at an early poll on Europe as he tried
to shore up Tory support ahead of today's local elections.

The PM signalled he was prepared to "consider" bringing forward laws to pave the
way for a referendum on Britain's EU membership.

He also suggested money ringfenced for health could be spent elsewhere and that
some of the international aid budget could be switched to the Ministry of
Defence to boost Forces spending.

The Tory Party is bracing itself for a hammering at the polls in England and
Wales where it could lose more than 200 county council seats.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              April 8, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cam's salvo at Brussels;
EUROPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 95 words


BRITAIN'S support for the EU is "wafer thin", David Cameron, claims in an
interview today.

The PM demands Brussels returns powers and says the EU is ripe for reform, in an
article published across Europe.

He reaffirms his pledge for an in/out referendum in the UK and accuses rigid EU
laws of stifling economic growth.

Ahead of meetings with European leaders, he will add: "Parties that promised
referendums didn't hold them. That damaged consent for membership."

France and Germany have already said there is "no chance" of a new treaty before
the planned referendum in 2017.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              April 8, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Cam's salvo at Brussels;
EUROPE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 95 words


THE UK's support for the EU is "wafer thin", David Cameron, claims in an
interview today.

The PM demands Brussels returns powers and says the EU is ripe for reform, in an
article published across Europe.

He reaffirms his pledge for an in/out referendum in the UK and accuses rigid EU
laws of stifling economic growth.

Ahead of meetings with European leaders, he will add: "Parties that promised
referendums didn't hold them. That damaged consent for membership."

France and Germany have already said there is "no chance" of a new treaty before
the planned referendum in 2017.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              April 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

We must help our children in need now;
COMMENT Park House, 191 - 197 North Circular Road, Dublin 7 Tel: 01 868 8600,
Fax 01 868 8626

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 231 words


THE public will find it shocking that some children in this country live in fear
of their lives.

It is hard to believe a baby was found in a wheelie bin and a young girl forced
to eat from a dustbin in the country that currently holds the EU Presidency.

While it is right that the public should know of these harrowing cases, they
will no doubt be shocked by them.

They will find it hard to understand how children are treated in such a dreadful
way in a supposedly civilised country.

The thought of a child crying due to hunger pangs while three others listen
covered in their own waste is sickening.

The Child Care Law Reporting Project is to be welcomed as it allows ordinary
people to see how and why children end up in care.

Until now this area of the country's legal system has been shrouded in secrecy.

This rightly protected the identity of the unfortunate children involved but it
also served to hide the true extent of the abuse.

Ireland passed the Children's Referendum last year but such legal niceties will
not protect children who are in danger from their parents or carers.

Dr Carol Coulter is correct when she says the new website will shed light on the
State care system.

What has emerged from the shadows might shock and disturb.

But, on the upside, it will put pressure on the Government to make more funding
available to help children who find their safety, or lives, are at risk.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              April 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EUROPE DOES WORK FOR EU

BYLINE: Paul Routledge

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 216 words


IT isn't true that workers want the UK to leave the European Union, but it's a
bit of a close-run thing.

An opinion poll of full and part-time workers for Unions21 showed that 45% would
vote to stay in the EU compared with 41% who would vote the other way.

Given the Tory-UKIP hate campaign against Europe that dominates most of the
media, this is encouraging.

It shows that workpeople are wiser than right-wing politicians. But it's only a
start.

If the nation is to say "Yes" to the EU in any future referendum, the arguments
in favour have to be put before voters with much greater force and more
frequently.

I voted "No" in the 1976 referendum. Today, it would be a resounding "Yes". Yes
to the Social Europe that has created a better life for workers: more equality,
more protection from redundancy, better information about their workplace,
shorter hours and longer holidays.

When the Eurohaters promise "more freedom" outside the EU, they mean fewer
rights at work. Greater freedom for employers to sack workpeople, make them work
longer hours and have shorter holidays.

Asked how they would feel about losing these rights - outside Europe or in a
Tory-renegotiated Common Market - 74% said they would either be very or somewhat
concerned.

Their anxiety is justified. This is another Tory con job.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              April 5, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;

EUROPE DOES WORK FOR EU

BYLINE: Paul Routledge

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 218 words


IT isn't true that workers want the UK to leave the European Union, but it's a
bit of a close-run thing.

An opinion poll of full and part-time workers for Unions21 showed that 45% would
vote to stay in the EU compared with 41% who would vote the other way.

Given the Tory-UKIP hate campaign against Europe that dominates most of the
media, this is encouraging.

It shows that workpeople are wiser than right-wing politicians. But it's only a
start.

g y If the nation is to say "Yes" to the EU in any future referendum, the
arguments in favour have to be put before voters with much greater force and
more frequently. y y , n I voted "No" in the 1976 referendum. Today, it would be
a resounding "Yes". Yes to the Social Europe that has created a better life for
workers: more equality, more protection from redundancy, better information
about their workplace, shorter hours and longer holidays.

When the Eurohaters promise "more freedom" outside the EU, they mean fewer
rights at work. Greater freedom for employers to sack workpeople, make them work
longer hours and have shorter holidays.

Asked how they would feel about losing these rights - outside Europe or in a
Tory-renegotiated Common Market - 74% said they would either be very or somewhat
concerned.

Their anxiety is justified. This is another Tory con job.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              April 1, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bye,George!;
TORIES DEMAND OSBORNE OUT AND HAGUE IN AT NO.11

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words


RATTLED Tory backbenchers yesterday turned on hapless George Osborne over the
dire state of the economy.

Top Conservative MPs fear that the flapping Chancellor could cost the party the
next general election and want him replaced at No.11 Downing St by William
Hague, currently Foreign Secretary.

ANGRY Concerns about Mr Osborne's competence are understood to be shared by
those at the highest levels of the party, with one senior Tory insisting:
"George is the problem."

Another MP said: "George must go. In my constituency people are angry about the
removal of child benefit, a policy designed and implemented by a rich Chancellor
in a safe seat with no idea how hard it is for ordinary folk."

The MP also told the Sunday Telegraph newspaper: "He is in danger of becoming a
millstone round the Prime Minister's neck."

The whispering campaign against the Chancellor comes as the PM faced a revolt by
100 backbenchers - a third of the parliamentary party - over Europe.

They have signed a letter to be delivered to No10 tomorrow calling for
legislation on a referendum on the UK's membership of the European Union to be
introduced before the 2015 general election.

They claim there is a strong argument in favour of bringing forward the enabling
legislation into this Parliament.

Jto The letter, drafted by backbencher John Baron, said: "It would address the
lack of public trust when people hear politicians making promises about Europe.
Too many have been broken in the past."

The revolt coincides with an opinion poll suggesting that Boris Johnson would
wipe out Labour's poll lead if the London Mayor were made Tory leader.

Sources within the party say there is gathering momentum behind a leadership
coup.

Tory Party chairman Grant Shapps yesterday admitted their chances of winning the
next election were "50/50".

D'ETAT Osborne But he backed Mr Osborne, saying: "He's done a heck of a job in
very difficult circumstances."

War on the Poor: Pages 4&5

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CUP D'ETAT J Tory campaign to oust Osborne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              March 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Even Tory Bible has lost faith..

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


RIGHT-wing journal The Spectator has turned on Mr Osborne, claiming the
Chancellor has "run out of ideas".

The cover of the latest issue shows him hiding in his red Budget box as patience
runs out in the Tory party.

It follows claims of a plot by right-wing Tories to oust the PM by pushing for
an early EU referendum and collapsing the Coalition.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;

CAM DONE UP LIKE A UKIPPER;
BEASTLEIGH FOR PM ; TORIES BATTERED

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE; JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 896 words


PM faces backlash as Tories limp to third Jubilant Lib Dems hail hard-won
victory FURIOUS Tories yesterday put David Cameron on probation after a
humiliating drubbing in the Eastleigh by-election.

The PM was branded "out of touch" by his own MPs after the party was beaten into
third place by Ukip.

There was no immediate push for a leadership coup, but one Tory MP said Mr
Cameron had just "weeks" to turn things around before this summer's local
elections.

Deputy PM Nick Clegg rubbed salt in the wounds by hailing a "stunning victory"
after Mike Thornton retained the Hampshire seat for the Lib Dems with 13,342
votes - a majority of 1,771. A night of high drama saw his party win despite the
resignation of disgraced MP Chris Huhne and the "Lord Grope" scandal.

Mr Clegg said: "This is a by-election we've had to fight in exceptionally
difficult circumstances.

opponents ha ha have thrown ing at us.

"Our opponents have thrown everything at us.

We held our nerve, stood our ground, worked as a team, we campaigned on every
doorstep."

Labour's ld our tood our worked am, we gned on oorstep." ur's John O'Farrell
came fourth with 4,088 votes, n ll e h h but the party increased its vote share
in a seat it was not expected to win.

The comedian revealed on Twitter that his wife awakened him "with an
affectionate 'Mornin', Loser!'".

He also said: "Weirdly 4th would have felt worse if the Tories had come 2nd. But
it was UKIP's night."

MOn a disastrous night for the Tories, Maria Hutchings limped home with 10,559
votes in h2 the party's 1 6 t h target seat. It led to bitter recriminations
against the PM as Tory MPs faced the prospect of another hung parliament in
2015.

One, Stewart Jackson, said: "Unless things are demonstrably different in terms
of public perception by the early summer, he will have great difficulty in
persuading the electorate that we can win a general election.

"He is out of touch with the party.

Gay marriage and EU migration feed into a narrative that too much emphasis is
going to the liberal metropolitan elite and not enough to the blue-collar
working vote Margaret Thatcher had the support of."

Leading backbencher Eleanor Laing - an ally of one-time Tory leadership
candidate Liam Fox - also took a swipe at Mr Cameron and Chancellor George
Osborne for "not tuning in to the hopes and fears of the majority of ordinary
people". She said: "In my own constituency, on the doorsteps in Eastleigh, and
generally people that I talk to, do you know what, they actually feel hurt."

The Epping Forest MP added: "They're told they're old-fashioned and they think
they don't matter and that what they stand for, and what they believe in,
doesn't matter."

Leadership wannabe Adam Afriyie said the Tories needed "clear policies" and the
result was a "wake-up call".

Tory grandee and ex-party chairman Norman Tebbit also put the boot in,
describing the by-election as a "humiliating defeat".

He wrote on his blog: "The most obvious lesson for Mr Cameron is that if a party
leader kicks his own supporters, often enough they will kick back."

A crestfallen Mr Cameron accepted it was a "disappointing result" for the Tories
but insisted there would be no change of course.

He added: "It is clear that, in midterm by-elections, people want to register a
protest.

"But I'm confident that at the general election we can win those people back by
demonstrating we are delivering for everyone who wants to work hard and wants to
get on."

Tory party deputy chairman Sarah Newton desperately tried to spin the result as
a "victory for the Coalition".

But glum-faced Tories are now looking to Mr Osborne's Budget this month to get
the party back on track.

Rebel Douglas Carswell warned that without action on living standards, the
Tories were doomed to a "long march of defeat".

He said: "I would like us to do far more to focus on the bread and butter issue
of cost of living. I think living standards are declining."

Fellow MP Claire Perry, a close ally of Mr Osborne, suggested the Chancellor
failed to make his message on the economy relevant to voters.

She said: "No one here tonight is going to go home and say hooray! The deficit
is down by a quarter. Isn't the Government doing well? "You are going to go
home, I think and think about filling up your car tomorrow, what is going to
happen to fuel duty in the budget."

There was also despair in the party that the PM's pledge for a referendum on the
UK's membership of the EU had not stalled the rise of Ukip as Diane James took
second place.

Jubiliant Ukip leader Nigel Farage said his party - once dismissed by Mr Cameron
as "loonies and fruitcakes" - was on course for victory in next year's European
elections.

He then twisted the knife and said: "The Conservatives failed here because
traditional voters look at Cameron and ask themselves, 'is he a Conservative?'
and they conclude, 'no, he's not'."

Labour took little comfort from the result, which underlined the party's tough
task winning in the South.

Leader Ed Miliband said: "Clearly I would have preferred to have got more votes
than we did, but this was always going to be a tough fight - it's a seat that
we've never won.

"It convinces me we need to redouble our efforts to reach out to every part of
the country, including areas where Labour hasn't traditionally been strong."

the People feel hurt. They are to told that what they stand for doesn't matter
ELEANOR LAING ht dE

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LABOUR John O'Farrell
DOG'S LIFE J Maria Hutchings and Elvis Loves Pets hopeful
THUMBS UP J Mike Thornton celebrates with Nick Clegg
CLOSE CALL Nigel Farage with Diane James

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAM DONE UP LIKE A UKIPPER;
BEASTLEIGH FOR PM ; TORIES BATTERED ; PM faces backlash as Tories limp to third
; Jubilant Lib Demshail hard-won victory

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE and JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 882 words


FURIOUS Tories yesterday put David Cameron on probation after a humiliating
drubbing in the Eastleigh by-election.

The PM was branded "out of touch" by his own MPs after the party was beaten into
third place by Ukip.

There was no immediate push for a leadership coup, but one Tory MP said Mr
Cameron had just "weeks" to turn things around before this summer's local
elections.

Deputy PM Nick Clegg rubbed salt in the wounds by hailing a "stunning victory"
after Mike Thornton retained the Hampshire seat for the Lib Dems with 13,342
votes - a majority of 1,771. A night of high drama saw his party win despite the
resignation of disgraced MP Chris Huhne and the "Lord Grope" scandal.

Mr Clegg said: "This is a by-election we've had to fight in exceptionally
difficult circumstances.

opponents ha ha have thrown ing at us.

"Our opponents have thrown everything at us.

We held our nerve, stood our ground, worked as a team, we campaigned on every
doorstep."

Labour's ld our tood our worked am, we gned on oorstep." ur's John O'Farrell
came fourth with 4,088 votes, n ll e h h but the party increased its vote share
in a seat it was not expected to win.

The comedian revealed on Twitter that his wife awakened him "with an
affectionate 'Mornin', Loser!'".

He also said: "Weirdly 4th would have felt worse if the Tories had come 2nd. But
it was UKIP's night."

MOn a disastrous night for the Tories, Maria Hutchings limped home with 10,559
votes in h2 the party's 1 6 t h target seat. It led to bitter recriminations
against the PM as Tory MPs faced the prospect of another hung parliament in
2015.

One, Stewart Jackson, said: "Unless things are demonstrably different in terms
of public perception by the early summer, he will have great difficulty in
persuading the electorate that we can win a general election.

"He is out of touch with the party.

Gay marriage and EU migration feed into a narrative that too much emphasis is
going to the liberal metropolitan elite and not enough to the blue-collar
working vote Margaret Thatcher had the support of."

Leading backbencher Eleanor Laing - an ally of one-time Tory leadership
candidate Liam Fox - also took a swipe at Mr Cameron and Chancellor George
Osborne for "not tuning in to the hopes and fears of the majority of ordinary
people". She said: "In my own constituency, on the doorsteps in Eastleigh, and
generally people that I talk to, do you know what, they actually feel hurt."

The Epping Forest MP added: "They're told they're old-fashioned and they think
they don't matter and that what they stand for, and what they believe in,
doesn't matter."

Leadership wannabe Adam Afriyie said the Tories needed "clear policies" and the
result was a "wake-up call".

Tory grandee and ex-party chairman Norman Tebbit also put the boot in,
describing the by-election as a "humiliating defeat".

He wrote on his blog: "The most obvious lesson for Mr Cameron is that if a party
leader kicks his own supporters, often enough they will kick back."

A crestfallen Mr Cameron accepted it was a "disappointing result" for the Tories
but insisted there would be no change of course.

He added: "It is clear that, in midterm by-elections, people want to register a
protest.

"But I'm confident that at the general election we can win those people back by
demonstrating we are delivering for everyone who wants to work hard and wants to
get on."

Tory party deputy chairman Sarah Newton desperately tried to spin the result as
a "victory for the Coalition".

But glum-faced Tories are now looking to Mr Osborne's Budget this month to get
the party back on track.

Rebel Douglas Carswell warned that without action on living standards, the
Tories were doomed to a "long march of defeat".

He said: "I would like us to do far more to focus on the bread and butter issue
of cost of living. I think living standards are declining."

Fellow MP Claire Perry, a close ally of Mr Osborne, suggested the Chancellor
failed to make his message on the economy relevant to voters.

She said: "No one here tonight is going to go home and say hooray! The deficit
is down by a quarter. Isn't the Government doing well? "You are going to go
home, I think and think about filling up your car tomorrow, what is going to
happen to fuel duty in the budget."

There was also despair in the party that the PM's pledge for a referendum on the
UK's membership of the EU had not stalled the rise of Ukip as Diane James took
second place.

Jubiliant Ukip leader Nigel Farage said his party - once dismissed by Mr Cameron
as "loonies and fruitcakes" - was on course for victory in next year's European
elections.

He then twisted the knife and said: "The Conservatives failed here because
traditional voters look at Cameron and ask themselves, 'is he a Conservative?'
and they conclude, 'no, he's not'."

Labour took little comfort from the result, which underlined the party's tough
task winning in the South.

Leader Ed Miliband said: "Clearly I would have preferred to have got more votes
than we did, but this was always going to be a tough fight - it's a seat that
we've never won.

"It convinces me we need to redouble our efforts to reach out to every part of
the country, including areas where Labour hasn't traditionally been strong."

the People feel hurt. They are to told that what they stand for doesn't matter
ELEANOR LAING ht dE

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LABOUR John O'Farrell
DOG'S LIFE J Maria Hutchings and Elvis Loves Pets hopeful
THUMBS UP J Mike Thornton celebrates with Nick Clegg
CLOSE CALL Nigel Farage with Diane James

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CAM DONE UP LIKE A UKIPPER;
BEASTLEIGH FOR PM ; TORIES BATTERED

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE; JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 896 words


PM faces backlash as Tories limp to third Jubilant Lib Dems hail hard-won
victory FURIOUS Tories yesterday put David Cameron on probation after a
humiliating drubbing in the Eastleigh by-election.

The PM was branded "out of touch" by his own MPs after the party was beaten into
third place by Ukip.

There was no immediate push for a leadership coup, but one Tory MP said Mr
Cameron had just "weeks" to turn things around before this summer's local
elections.

Deputy PM Nick Clegg rubbed salt in the wounds by hailing a "stunning victory"
after Mike Thornton retained the Hampshire seat for the Lib Dems with 13,342
votes - a majority of 1,771. A night of high drama saw his party win despite the
resignation of disgraced MP Chris Huhne and the "Lord Grope" scandal.

Mr Clegg said: "This is a by-election we've had to fight in exceptionally
difficult circumstances.

opponents ha ha have thrown ing at us.

"Our opponents have thrown everything at us.

We held our nerve, stood our ground, worked as a team, we campaigned on every
doorstep."

Labour's ld our tood our worked am, we gned on oorstep." ur's John O'Farrell
came fourth with 4,088 votes, n ll e h h but the party increased its vote share
in a seat it was not expected to win.

The comedian revealed on Twitter that his wife awakened him "with an
affectionate 'Mornin', Loser!'".

He also said: "Weirdly 4th would have felt worse if the Tories had come 2nd. But
it was UKIP's night."

MOn a disastrous night for the Tories, Maria Hutchings limped home with 10,559
votes in h2 the party's 1 6 t h target seat. It led to bitter recriminations
against the PM as Tory MPs faced the prospect of another hung parliament in
2015.

One, Stewart Jackson, said: "Unless things are demonstrably different in terms
of public perception by the early summer, he will have great difficulty in
persuading the electorate that we can win a general election.

"He is out of touch with the party.

Gay marriage and EU migration feed into a narrative that too much emphasis is
going to the liberal metropolitan elite and not enough to the blue-collar
working vote Margaret Thatcher had the support of."

Leading backbencher Eleanor Laing - an ally of one-time Tory leadership
candidate Liam Fox - also took a swipe at Mr Cameron and Chancellor George
Osborne for "not tuning in to the hopes and fears of the majority of ordinary
people". She said: "In my own constituency, on the doorsteps in Eastleigh, and
generally people that I talk to, do you know what, they actually feel hurt."

The Epping Forest MP added: "They're told they're old-fashioned and they think
they don't matter and that what they stand for, and what they believe in,
doesn't matter."

Leadership wannabe Adam Afriyie said the Tories needed "clear policies" and the
result was a "wake-up call".

Tory grandee and ex-party chairman Norman Tebbit also put the boot in,
describing the by-election as a "humiliating defeat".

He wrote on his blog: "The most obvious lesson for Mr Cameron is that if a party
leader kicks his own supporters, often enough they will kick back."

A crestfallen Mr Cameron accepted it was a "disappointing result" for the Tories
but insisted there would be no change of course.

He added: "It is clear that, in midterm by-elections, people want to register a
protest.

"But I'm confident that at the general election we can win those people back by
demonstrating we are delivering for everyone who wants to work hard and wants to
get on."

Tory party deputy chairman Sarah Newton desperately tried to spin the result as
a "victory for the Coalition".

But glum-faced Tories are now looking to Mr Osborne's Budget this month to get
the party back on track.

Rebel Douglas Carswell warned that without action on living standards, the
Tories were doomed to a "long march of defeat".

He said: "I would like us to do far more to focus on the bread and butter issue
of cost of living. I think living standards are declining."

Fellow MP Claire Perry, a close ally of Mr Osborne, suggested the Chancellor
failed to make his message on the economy relevant to voters.

She said: "No one here tonight is going to go home and say hooray! The deficit
is down by a quarter. Isn't the Government doing well? "You are going to go
home, I think and think about filling up your car tomorrow, what is going to
happen to fuel duty in the budget."

There was also despair in the party that the PM's pledge for a referendum on the
UK's membership of the EU had not stalled the rise of Ukip as Diane James took
second place.

Jubiliant Ukip leader Nigel Farage said his party - once dismissed by Mr Cameron
as "loonies and fruitcakes" - was on course for victory in next year's European
elections.

He then twisted the knife and said: "The Conservatives failed here because
traditional voters look at Cameron and ask themselves, 'is he a Conservative?'
and they conclude, 'no, he's not'."

Labour took little comfort from the result, which underlined the party's tough
task winning in the South.

Leader Ed Miliband said: "Clearly I would have preferred to have got more votes
than we did, but this was always going to be a tough fight - it's a seat that
we've never won.

"It convinces me we need to redouble our efforts to reach out to every part of
the country, including areas where Labour hasn't traditionally been strong."

the People feel hurt. They are to told that what they stand for doesn't matter
ELEANOR LAING ht dE

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LABOUR John O'Farrell
DOG'S LIFE J Maria Hutchings and Elvis Loves Pets hopeful
THUMBS UP J Mike Thornton celebrates with Nick Clegg
CLOSE CALL Nigel Farage with Diane James

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;

PM BRACED FOR DISASTER

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 216 words


DAVID Cameron has been warned his leadership will be thrown into "crisis" if the
Tories are trounced in today's Eastleigh by-election.

The party has been rocked by a late UKIP surge in the bitterly fought contest.

The Lib Dems now look set to retain the seat despite the departure of shamed MP
Chris Huhne, caused the by-election by quitting. UKIP are tipped for second
place in the Hampshire constituency, which is the Tories' 16th target seat.

That result would be a disaster for Mr Cameron, who tried to head off a UKIP
threat by promising a referendum on the EU.

Former Tory leadership rival David Davis told the BBC's Daily Politics show: "If
we come third it will be a crisis.

If it's a close second with UKIP on our tail it will also be uncomfortable.

"It's not going to dislodge David Cameron... but the simple truth is it will
make things more uncomfortable."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage last night said: "It started off as a two-horse race
with the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives ahead. Over the course of the last
week we have been coming up on the rail."

The Tory candidate Maria Hutchings caused fury by suggesting state schools were
not good enough for her gifted son.

Labour's candidate John O'Farrell was joined on the campaign trail by Cherie
Blair yesterday but is an outsider in the race.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Z Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM BRACED FOR DISASTER

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 220 words


DAVID Cameron has been warned his leadership will be thrown into "crisis" if the
Tories are trounced in today's Eastleigh by-election.

The party has been rocked by a late UKIP surge in the bitterly fought contest.

The Lib Dems now look set to retain the seat despite the departure of shamed MP
Chris Huhne, which caused the by-election, and the Lord Grope scandal.

UKIP are tipped for second place in the Hampshire constituency, which is the
Tories' 16th target seat.

That result would be a disaster for Mr Cameron, who tried to head off a UKIP
threat by promising a referendum on the EU.

Former Tory lead-ership rival David Davis told the BBC's Daily Politics show:
"If we come third it will be a crisis. If it's a close second with UKIP on our
tail it will also be uncomfortable.

"It's not going to dislodge David Cameron... but the simple truth is it will
make things more uncomfortable."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage last night said: "It started off as a two-horse race
with the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives ahead. Over the course of the last
week we have been coming up on the rail."

The Tory candidate Maria Hutchings caused fury by suggesting state schools were
not good enough for her gifted son.

Labour's candidate John O'Farrell was joined on the campaign trail by Cherie
Blair yesterday but is an outsider in the race.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Z Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

PM BRACED FOR DISASTER

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 216 words


DAVID Cameron has been warned his leadership will be thrown into "crisis" if the
Tories are trounced in today's Eastleigh by-election.

The party has been rocked by a late UKIP surge in the bitterly fought contest.

The Lib Dems now look set to retain the seat despite the departure of shamed MP
Chris Huhne, caused the by-election by quitting. UKIP are tipped for second
place in the Hampshire constituency, which is the Tories' 16th target seat.

That result would be a disaster for Mr Cameron, who tried to head off a UKIP
threat by promising a referendum on the EU.

Former Tory leadership rival David Davis told the BBC's Daily Politics show: "If
we come third it will be a crisis.

If it's a close second with UKIP on our tail it will also be uncomfortable.

"It's not going to dislodge David Cameron... but the simple truth is it will
make things more uncomfortable."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage last night said: "It started off as a two-horse race
with the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives ahead. Over the course of the last
week we have been coming up on the rail."

The Tory candidate Maria Hutchings caused fury by suggesting state schools were
not good enough for her gifted son.

Labour's candidate John O'Farrell was joined on the campaign trail by Cherie
Blair yesterday but is an outsider in the race.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Z Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PM BRACED FOR DISASTER

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 220 words


DAVID Cameron has been warned his leadership will be thrown into "crisis" if the
Tories are trounced in today's Eastleigh by-election.

The party has been rocked by a late UKIP surge in the bitterly fought contest.

The Lib Dems now look set to retain the seat despite the departure of shamed MP
Chris Huhne, which caused the by-election, and the Lord Grope scandal.

UKIP are tipped for second place in the Hampshire constituency, which is the
Tories' 16th target seat.

That result would be a disaster for Mr Cameron, who tried to head off a UKIP
threat by promising a referendum on the EU.

Former Tory lead-ership rival David Davis told the BBC's Daily Politics show:
"If we come third it will be a crisis. If it's a close second with UKIP on our
tail it will also be uncomfortable.

"It's not going to dislodge David Cameron... but the simple truth is it will
make things more uncomfortable."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage last night said: "It started off as a two-horse race
with the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives ahead. Over the course of the last
week we have been coming up on the rail."

The Tory candidate Maria Hutchings caused fury by suggesting state schools were
not good enough for her gifted son.

Labour's candidate John O'Farrell was joined on the campaign trail by Cherie
Blair yesterday but is an outsider in the race.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Z Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 15, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;

Major: Tory EU poll plan is 'a gamble';
REFERENDUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words


TORY plans for a referendum on the European Union are, "a gamble for the country
and the Conservative Party", said former Prime Minister Sir John Major
yesterday.

But the alternative was for the UK to drift towards the EU exit, he added in a
rare speech to London's Chatham House think-tank.

Sir John claimed the poll, scheduled for 2018, "could heal many old sores and
have a cleansing effect".

He said: "The relationship with Europe has poisoned British politics for too
long, distracted Parliament and come close to destroying the Conservative
Party."

And he warned David Cameron of a backlash from those, "with Conservative heads
and UKIP hearts", who will not be happy until Britain leaves the EU.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 15, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Major: Tory EU poll plan is 'a gamble';
REFERENDUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words


TORY plans for a referendum on the European Union are, "a gamble for the country
and the Conservative Party", said former Prime Minister Sir John Major
yesterday.

But the alternative was for the UK to drift towards the EU exit, he added in a
rare speech to London's Chatham House think-tank.

Sir John claimed the poll, scheduled for 2018, "could heal many old sores and
have a cleansing effect".

He said: "The relationship with Europe has poisoned British politics for too
long, distracted Parliament and come close to destroying the Conservative
Party."

And he warned David Cameron of a backlash from those, "with Conservative heads
and UKIP hearts", who will not be happy until Britain leaves the EU.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

Balls leaves door open on EU vote;
REFERENDUM

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 136 words


ED BALLS has said Labour would be "stupid" to rule out a referendum on Europe.

The Shadow Chancellor said the party could not afford to be portrayed as against
letting people have their say.

He spoke out after David Cameron said Ed Miliband could not criticise him for
creating "uncertainty" without saying if Labour was in favour of a poll or not.

Mr Balls said Labour had "absolutely not" ruled out a vote. He said: "If we
allow ourselves to be the 'status quo party' on Europe, or the 'anti-referendum
party' on Europe, we've a problem.

"But I think we would be pretty stupid to get into either of those positions."

A Labour source said it was ridiculous to suggest a split between Mr Miliband
and Mr Balls on the issue. Both felt a vote in four years' time would not help
Britain's key priority of promoting more growth.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIGHT TO VOTE Ed Balls

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Balls leaves door open on EU vote;
REFERENDUM

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 136 words


ED BALLS has said Labour would be "stupid" to rule out a referendum on Europe.

The Shadow Chancellor said the party could not afford to be portrayed as against
letting people have their say.

He spoke out after David Cameron said Ed Miliband could not criticise him for
creating "uncertainty" without saying if Labour was in favour of a poll or not.

Mr Balls said Labour had "absolutely not" ruled out a vote. He said: "If we
allow ourselves to be the 'status quo party' on Europe, or the 'anti-referendum
party' on Europe, we've a problem.

"But I think we would be pretty stupid to get into either of those positions."

A Labour source said it was ridiculous to suggest a split between Mr Miliband
and Mr Balls on the issue. Both felt a vote in four years' time would not help
Britain's key priority of promoting more growth.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIGHT TO VOTE Ed Balls

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Balls leaves door open on EU vote;
REFERENDUM

BYLINE: TOM McTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 136 words


ED BALLS has said Labour would be "stupid" to rule out a referendum on Europe.

The Shadow Chancellor said the party could not afford to be portrayed as against
letting people have their say.

He spoke out after David Cameron said Ed Miliband could not criticise him for
creating "uncertainty" without saying if Labour was in favour of a poll or not.

Mr Balls said Labour had "absolutely not" ruled out a vote. He said: "If we
allow ourselves to be the 'status quo party' on Europe, or the 'anti-referendum
party' on Europe, we've a problem.

"But I think we would be pretty stupid to get into either of those positions."

A Labour source said it was ridiculous to suggest a split between Mr Miliband
and Mr Balls on the issue. Both felt a vote in four years' time would not help
Britain's key priority of promoting more growth.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIGHT TO VOTE Ed Balls

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;

Cam wants billions off EU budget;
SPENDING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 98 words


DAVID Cameron heads to Brussels today to demand billions more euros are slashed
from the EU budget.

For the past five years it has been capped at a total of no more than
£815billion.

The PM wants to see a realterms freeze over the next seven years, but insiders
said he will push for more savings.

That would mean total spending of some £780billion.

Mr Cameron has become a role model in Europe - for French far-right chief Marine
Le Pen. The National Front leader wants to copy his 2017 referendum pledge, and
said: "We've seen the EU's impact on our economy, unemployment and social
problems."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cam wants billions off EU budget;
SPENDING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 98 words


DAVID Cameron heads to Brussels today to demand billions more euros are slashed
from the EU budget.

For the past five years it has been capped at a total of no more than
£815billion.

The PM wants to see a realterms freeze over the next seven years, but insiders
said he will push for more savings.

That would mean total spending of some £780billion.

Mr Cameron has become a role model in Europe - for French far-right chief Marine
Le Pen. The National Front leader wants to copy his 2017 referendum pledge, and
said: "We've seen the EU's impact on our economy, unemployment and social
problems."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 4, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

Cam Euro vote 'bad for Britain'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 155 words


TONY Blair turned his fire on David Cameron, too - warning yesterday that his
pledge to hold an in-out referendum on Europe was "not a way of solving things".

Mr Blair said he backed the Tory PM 100% in his bid to reform the EU, but
disagreed that Britain needed to threaten to pull out.

He added: "If you're saying this is about Britain's relationship with Europe,
it's one versus 26. So you'd better make sure they're all lined up behind that.
I can't really believe David Cameron thinks it's sensible to get out of Europe
even if he doesn't achieve all of that agenda. If Britain did vote to go out, I
think it would be a huge problem for our country."

Mr Blair said it would be "perfectly sensible" to offer a referendum on any
changes, but not on Britain's place in the club.

He warned: "It's the 'out' bit... once you put that on the ballot paper, you
know you're then in a situation where who knows what the circumstances will be."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 4, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cam Euro vote 'bad for Britain'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 155 words


TONY Blair turned his fire on David Cameron, too - warning yesterday that his
pledge to hold an in-out referendum on Europe was "not a way of solving things".

Mr Blair said he backed the Tory PM 100% in his bid to reform the EU, but
disagreed that Britain needed to threaten to pull out.

He added: "If you're saying this is about Britain's relationship with Europe,
it's one versus 26. So you'd better make sure they're all lined up behind that.
I can't really believe David Cameron thinks it's sensible to get out of Europe
even if he doesn't achieve all of that agenda. If Britain did vote to go out, I
think it would be a huge problem for our country."

Mr Blair said it would be "perfectly sensible" to offer a referendum on any
changes, but not on Britain's place in the club.

He warned: "It's the 'out' bit... once you put that on the ballot paper, you
know you're then in a situation where who knows what the circumstances will be."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;

'Fatal error' to dump EU says Clarke;
REFERENDUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 88 words


LEAVING the European Union would be a fatal mistake, Ken Clarke warned last
night.

The Cabinet heavyweight's fightback came after David Cameron pledged last week
to renegotiate the EU treaty and then put it to a referendum if re-elected in
2015.

He said: "There is a huge potential prize out there. It is in our vital national
interest that we avoid the fatal mistake that would be a no vote."

Labour's Lord Mandelson called for an end to the mindless, inward looking,
soul-searching and navelgazing over Britain's place in the EU.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Fatal error' to dump EU says Clarke;
REFERENDUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 88 words


LEAVING the European Union would be a fatal mistake, Ken Clarke warned last
night.

The Cabinet heavyweight's fightback came after David Cameron pledged last week
to renegotiate the EU treaty and then put it to a referendum if re-elected in
2015.

He said: "There is a huge potential prize out there. It is in our vital national
interest that we avoid the fatal mistake that would be a no vote."

Labour's Lord Mandelson called for an end to the mindless, inward looking,
soul-searching and navelgazing over Britain's place in the EU.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 122 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

'Fatal error' to dump EU says Clarke;
REFERENDUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 88 words


LEAVING the European Union would be a fatal mistake, Ken Clarke warned last
night.

The Cabinet heavyweight's fightback came after David Cameron pledged last week
to renegotiate the EU treaty and then put it to a referendum if re-elected in
2015.

He said: "There is a huge potential prize out there. It is in our vital national
interest that we avoid the fatal mistake that would be a no vote."

Labour's Lord Mandelson called for an end to the mindless, inward looking,
soul-searching and navelgazing over Britain's place in the EU.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
