
                               1 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 29, 2013

Front: Britons will welcome east Europeans - poll

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey, Policy Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words


Romanians and Bulgarians coming to the UK on New Year's Day will be welcomed by
more than two-thirds of Britons if they integrate and work hard, a new poll
suggests ahead of restrictions on them being lifted.

In spite of a surge of anti-immigrant rhetoric from leading politicians, British
people are happy to accept migrants from the east of Europe who learn English,
get a job, pay taxes and become part of their local community.

As many as 68% of those asked said they would be happy for migrants to come on
those terms. That sentiment was particularly strong among people aged between 35
and 44, with 72% supporting their right to come to the UK.

The Ipsos Mori poll for the thinktank British Future comes in the wake of an
intervention in the Observer by the president of Bulgaria, Rosen Plevneliev, who
warned the British government not to abandon its traditional tolerance of
immigrants in favour of isolation.

The business secretary, Vince Cable, responded to Plevneliev by accusing David
Cameron and members of the Conservative party of adopting harmful "populist"
immigration policies, such as a potential cap on EU migration and a proposed
block on taking in migrants from countries with a GDP less than 75% of the UK's.

Yet, despite a barrage of negative publicity about the arrival of migrants from
Romania and Bulgaria, the new poll finds that only one in four Britons (24%)
believe that restricting the free movement of people, while staying in the EU,
should be one of the government's priorities. A similar proportion (26%) said
leaving the EU should be a priority if it does not change its rules on allowing
people to come to the UK.

Nearly half (45%) said that enforcing the minimum wage was one of the most
important ways of stopping business undercutting British workers by paying
European workers less. Around one in five (22%) believed in the importance of
managing the impact of immigration by, for example, giving more support to areas
heavily affected.

The polling also showed that, while a significant majority did want a tightening
of the welfare system (63%), just 2% of those asked believed that there was
nothing migrants from Romania and Bulgaria could do to be accepted. This
compares with 69% who said that learning the English language should be a
priority for migrants, and 64% who said getting a job and paying taxes were
among the key things to do.

Sunder Katwala, director of British Future, said: "I think the findings show
that Romanian and Bulgarian migrants coming to work and play by the rules are
welcomed; that coming to work, and not claiming before they've paid in, seems
more important to people than rewriting the free movement rules or getting out
of Europe, though both are legitimate long-term debates."

Meanwhile a YouGov poll of opinion leaders, organised by the all-party campaign
group British Influence, also found that 81% did not feel that Cameron was
talking enough about the benefits of EU membership ahead of a possible
referendum in 2017.

Lord (Geoffrey) Howe, who served as chancellor and foreign secretary to Margaret
Thatcher, said: "Sadly, by repeated concessions to the Eurosceptics, the
government made its own position on Europe, and in Europe, more difficult."

The Bulgarian minister of labour, Hassan Ademov, told the Observer he believed
the prime minister was being led into nationalistic rhetoric by the popularity
of the UK Independence party. He said he did not believe there would be an
influx to the UK, but revealed that the Bulgarian and British governments have
agreed to work together to ensure that companies registered both in Bulgaria and
the UK are prevented from exploiting the potential for cheap labour. They have
also agreed to clamp down on any potential welfare fraud in a new "letter of
intention" signed by both governments.

Ademov, who met employment minister Esther McVey this month to discuss the terms
of the agreement, said the UK government's attitude to Bulgarian and Romanian
citizens so far had been "categorically unacceptable".

He added: "My view is that the main explanation for what has been happening is
that it is party election rhetoric. God and the European commission between them
have given Bulgaria and Romania the honour of having the transitional controls
lifted just six months before the elections for the European parliament."


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 22, 2013

Comment: The immigration debate: Should Britain fear a surge of east European
migrants?: With only 10 days to go until our labour market is opened to Romanian
and Bulgarian workers, amid great controversy, two commentators on either side
of the argument debate the pitfalls and benefits of immigration: Yes: The impact
on our housing and schools will be enormous

BYLINE: Alp Mehmet

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1160 words


The opening of our labour market to workers from Romania and Bulgaria in 10
days' time has attracted enormous attention from the media. Some say that this
is just the tabloids blowing the whole issue out of proportion while being blind
to the economic benefits of immigration as well as to the political advantages
of stabilising eastern Europe.

We at Migrationwatch take a different view. We believe that this moment brings
together, indeed encapsulates, two major issues affecting the whole future of
our society - the scale of our population and our continued membership of the
European Union.

Last January, Migrationwatch published a paper in which we concluded that
immigration from Romania and Bulgaria could be around 50,000 a year over the
first five years following full access to the labour market. That amounts to an
extra population roughly the size of the London borough of Tower Hamlets. There
will not be thousands of Romanians and Bulgarians queuing at the airports ready
to rush to the UK at midnight on 31 December; the process will be gradual but
this is what we expect in the medium term.

Our forecast was based on the number who have already arrived in recent years
and on a comparison with the Polish precedent. This time, other major countries
- Germany, France and the Netherlands - are opening their labour market
simultaneously. On the other hand, there are now nearly a million Romanians in
both Spain and Italy who might transfer to the UK. According to European Union
figures, 30% of Romanians in Spain were without work in 2011.

Critics of our forecast have vacillated between saying that it wasn't possible
to make a forecast, that those who are going to come were already here, or that
the number coming didn't matter because they would be mostly young and fit and
intending to work rather than to claim benefits.

We have looked carefully at the economic incentives and found that even at the
UK minimum wage, a single Romanian or Bulgarian worker in the UK would earn four
or five times what he would earn at home. For a family, that would be almost
nine times. Even a family earning an average wage in Bulgaria and Romania could
be three or four times better off in the UK on the minimum wage.

It is very hard to know whether any of the 2.5 million Roma in these two
countries will seek to migrate westwards in any numbers. Their situation is
worse than that of their compatriots because they are often unable to access
social welfare in their home countries. To do so, they need to have a national
insurance number, which can only be allocated to people with a fixed abode -
difficult for Roma, who tend to move about even within their own countries.

I know from having lived and worked in Romania and having visited Bulgaria many
times that the Romanians and Bulgarians who come to this country will mostly be
decent and hard-working people.

I like and admire the Romanians. However, the issue around immigration is not
just about economics, if it ever was. The Office for Budget Responsibility
reported recently that, after reviewing the "vast literature" on the impact of
migration, most of it indicated that immigrants have a positive, although not
significant, impact on productivity and GDP.

The issue is now political, indeed highly political. The British public is
already deeply concerned by the mass immigration of recent years. Net foreign
immigration under the previous government was very nearly four million. This
took place against the frequently expressed views of the public and has left a
legacy of deep mistrust. According to a Sky News-Survation poll in September,
67% of respondents agreed that the UK population is already too large and that
the government should take drastic action now to reduce migration.

The government has made some progress. Non-EU immigration, the element that they
can control, is now at its lowest since 1998. Furthermore, this has been
achieved while the number of overseas students at our universities has increased
by some 7% and the number of business visitor visas and work permits has also
increased. Britain has remained open for business.

My feeling is that welcome as the measures recently announced by the government
were, presumably intended to dissuade some Romanians and Bulgarians from coming,
they will make little difference to the numbers. Few can disagree with making
the process of accessing benefits a bit more rigorous than it is. I agree, too,
with the removal of beggars, the beefing up of the habitual residence test, by
which claimants have to show that they intend to live in this country and that
they are willing and able to work; hence the relevance of a reasonable grasp of
English. I welcome, too, higher fines for employers who pay less than the law
requires. These measures are what polls have consistently shown the British
people want. Indeed, most people (80%) want restrictions on Romanians and
Bulgarians to continue beyond 1 January.

The wider picture, however, is that net migration must continue to be firmly and
successfully tackled. If it is allowed to drift back up to its 10-year average
of 200,000 a year it will drive our population to about 70 million in a dozen
years and 80 million in 2060. At least 60% of the increase will be due to
immigration, which will also account for one-third of the requirement for new
homes and add to the existing pressures on schools and public services. The
impact on our society will be enormous, especially in areas of high immigration.
The latest official forecasts have the population of such places as Kingston
upon Thames and Tower Hamlets increasing by about 20% in just 10 years.

EU migration will be the main obstacle to achieving control of the numbers.
Migrants from the first eight east European countries have been adding 100,000
to our population every year. If Romania and Bulgaria add anything like another
50,000 a year, it is hard to see how our population increase can be reined in.
That is not to speak of the downward pressure on low wages that nobody denies or
the added competition for the one million young Britons struggling to find work.

Those who are opposed to our continued membership of the EU are using the issue
as a battering ram. The war cry is that to remain in the EU is to surrender
control of our borders. In present circumstances, they may well be right.

We do not know how the numbers will develop in the three years or so before a
referendum in 2017. Some are already suggesting that we may have to find some
way of restraining the immigration of workers from existing member states. That
would run contrary to the principle of free movement and would undermine the
single market. It would split British politics and generate a fundamental clash
with our European partners. So, perhaps, the outcome of Romanian and Bulgarian
immigration is, indeed, something we should be concerned about.

Alp Mehmet is vice chair of MigrationWatch UK and former British ambassador to
Iceland


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                December 1, 2013

Front: Shock four-country poll reveals the widening gulf between UK and EU

BYLINE: Toby Helm, Political Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 835 words


A powerful cross-party alliance including former Tory foreign secretary Malcolm
Rifkind and deputy prime minister Nick Clegg is calling for an urgent fightback
against spiralling anti-European sentiment as a new four-nation poll suggests
the UK could be heading out of the EU.

The landmark survey of more than 5,000 voters in the UK, Germany, France and
Poland finds British people far more hostile to the EU and its policies than
those in the other EU states, and strikingly low support for British membership
among people on the continent.

At the same time, the total numbers of people in Germany and France who support
giving Britain a special deal on membership to satisfy British opinion are
heavily outnumbered by those who oppose doing so, which suggests that David
Cameron may struggle to achieve his hoped-for tailor-made arrangement for the
UK.

Testing cultural opinions, the poll finds very few British people choose to
describe themselves as European. In other EU nations, enthusiasm for the concept
of Europeanism is far higher.

Opinium found that just 26% of British voters regard the EU as, overall, a "good
thing" compared with 42% who say it is a "bad thing". In Poland 62% say it is a
good thing and 13% bad; in Germany 55% good and 17% bad, and in France 36% good
and 34% bad.

When asked about the UK's contribution to the EU, there is little enthusiasm
among our partners, and little to suggest they will go out of their way to keep
us in. Just 9% of Germans and 15% of French people think the UK is a positive
influence on the EU, with more Poles, 33%, taking that view.

Only 16% of Germans and 26% of French people back the idea of a special deal
being struck for the UK. Cameron has said he intends to renegotiate the UK terms
of entry and hold an in/out referendum if he wins a majority at the next
election, offering the new arrangement to the British people in a referendum.

The idea of Britain leaving the EU does not appear to worry our European
partners unduly. Just 24% of French voters said a UK exit would have a negative
effect, compared with 36% of Germans and 51% of Poles.

Last night Rifkind said: "There needs to be a serious debate about the real
benefits of - as well as the real problems about - British membership of the EU.
Without it we could do serious damage to Britain's interests."

Clegg said next year's European elections represented a key test and attacked
those intent on taking Britain out of the EU. He said: "Everybody knows the EU
needs reform. But simply carping from the sidelines and flirting with exit
undermines British leadership in the EU, fails to deliver reform and leaves
Britain increasingly isolated. The debate about Europe is no longer about who is
for or against reform - everybody agrees on that - it is between those who
believe we can lead in the EU and those who want to head for the exit.

"That's why next year's elections will be so important: the Liberal Democrats
will be the leading party of 'in'. It's time we challenged Ukip and large swaths
of the Conservative party who want to betray Britain's vital national interest
by pulling us out of the world's largest borderless single market, on which
millions of jobs depend."

Labour MP and former Europe minister Peter Hain urged pro-Europeans to stand up
and fight: "This is a wake-up call for British pro-Europeans that Britain -
especially if the Tories win the next election - is heading for an exit from the
EU which would be an utter disaster for British jobs, prosperity and influence
in the world. But it is equally a wake-up call for the Brussels Bubble, which is
totally out of touch with Europe's citizens."

The poll shows concern about immigration to be almost as high in France as in
the UK. In Britain, 64% of voters think the EU's immigration policies have a
negative effect; 59% say the same in France.

It also reveals that more UK voters feel an affinity with the US than with their
European neighbours, whereas our EU partners tend to choose other EU nations.
When asked who they would generally support on occasions when there was a
disagreement between the US and EU countries, 37% of UK respondent said they
would tend to support America; just 10% would generally side with Europe.

British people are not negative about everything the EU does: 54% think free
movement rules are good for tourism against 6% who think the reverse. There is
also strong endorsement for free-trade benefits. Nearly half of those polled say
the absence of customs controls and tariffs on goods and services is an
advantage. Only 10% see free trade as a disadvantage.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "This is a fascinating and comprehensive study
into the relative relationships between countries within and about the EU. We,
on these islands feel, due to our history as a globally trading nation, much
more at home with our cousins in the Anglosphere than we do with our friends on
the continent."

Captions:

Former foreign secretary Malcolm Rifkind: 'We could do serious damage to
Britain's interests.'


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 24, 2013

Does the narrow and regressive Tory party have a death wish?: Even David Cameron
no longer affects to be a moderniser as Conservatives retreat to their comfort
zones

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1198 words


The Conservative party is at odds and at a loss. The combination of Ukip, voter
disaffection and the ongoing pressure on living standards means the likelihood
of David Cameron doing what neither Margaret Thatcher nor Tony Blair managed to
do - lifting the share of the vote after an initial general election victory -
is very low.

As a result, it is nearly certain there will be fewer than 300 Tory MPs in the
next parliament. And, given the biases in the electoral system, along with
growing acknowledgement that Mr Miliband may have some answers, there are almost
certain to be more than 300 Labour MPs. For the Tory party whose vocation is to
rule, this is unacceptable and it is opening up a fundamental debate about what
Toryism means.

John Major is emboldened to intervene and remind his party of a different
conservative tradition. Importantly, he was the last Tory leader to win a
parliamentary majority. Tory MP Jesse Norman invokes Edmund Burke and his
instinct to conserve institutions better to serve the mass of the citizenship.
Some to his right insist the answer is make populist common cause with Ukip.
Boris Johnson tells us we must celebrate the rich. Last week, Nick Boles, the
minister for planning, entered the soul-searching, declaring that his party's
single biggest problem was that it is still seen as the party of the rich; the
public does not trust its motives, even if it likes its policies.

I have to disabuse the courageous Mr Boles - the problem goes much deeper. The
country does not like Tory policies and values. Britain at its core has a
profound commitment to fair play and the rule of law; it has a good-humoured
decency and pride in the country. The institutions that command its affections
include the NHS, the BBC, the tortured Church of England, the National Theatre,
the courts, the British army, all of which in varying degrees are wholly
detached from the contemporary Conservative project. The Tories are not just the
party of the rich - they have gone rogue.

Toryism was never an inventive institution builder nor creative reforming force.
Its agenda for much of the 150 years up to the end of the First World War was
essentially defensive and narrowly based. Whigs, then liberals, defined the
country's trajectory, owning the reformist, pro-science Enlightenment tradition
and defining Britishness. The Tories were the party of the country and its
regressive, anti-modern instincts.

What gave the Tory party its lien on power was the arrival of British socialism
and the collapse of the Liberal party, many of whose MPs, such as Winston
Churchill, became Conservatives. The fusion with the liberal tradition allowed
the party to become a very broad church, the one nation party Disraeli had
wanted it to be.

Harold Macmillan could champion the middle way; Michael Heseltine fought his
first parliamentary seat as a National Liberal in alliance with the Tories.
These broad church Tories embodied a non-socialist idea of Britain as the
defender of enterprise and the country's core institutions before the socialist
challenge. They accepted a sufficiently activist state discharging its
obligations to the less well-off and the party's leaders were validated by being
at the apex of the social pinnacle.

But unlike German Christian Democrats or Eisenhower Republicans, Britain's
Tories were never the wholehearted allies of industry, innovation and
technology, nor willing to subordinate the City and finance determinedly to
drive British companies forward. They were gentlemanly capitalists happy to live
on the bounty of two centuries of empire. They defined the political and
economic problem as the Labour party and trade unions rather than the City and
deep dysfunctions in the way British companies were owned and their lack of
investment and innovation.

Margaret Thatcher's talent was to use the language of the fashionable free
market to slay traditional Tory enemies - unions and nationalised industries -
but in so doing to dodge what really needed tackling. Indeed, Thatcherite
deregulation made finance yet more powerful, with baleful results. She never
converted the people: the mass of Britons still look to the state for redress
and leadership. Opinion polls show massive majorities in favour of
renationalising the rail and energy companies. The public sees them as utilities
whose mission is to serve them, not as profit-maximising plcs and the state as
guarantor of that mission. It also looks to the state to create acceptable
levels of fairness and to hold the elite to account for its mistakes and
failures. The public is right to do so.

David Cameron understood that reclaiming the Tory majority would mean remaking
the compact with liberal Enlightenment Britain. The NHS would be safe in his
hands; his government would be the greenest ever; he would champion the Big
Society, the aid budget and science; he would revive civic Britain; he would
bring an integrity to government and have a truce with the EU. But his party, it
is now obvious, was never persuaded. It wants to carry on where Mrs Thatcher
left off - regressing to a comfort zone of smiting traditional enemies even if
the returns are likely to be non-existent or, as in leaving the EU,
self-defeating.

The interaction of a conservative, Thatcher-celebrating media with Conservative
party constituency associations that in effect command rotten boroughs, despite
their tiny membership, has made internal Tory politics close to unmanageable.
MPs are returned reflecting comfort-zone politics rather than those of a broader
coalition. The result is that the animating element in today's Toryism is a
British version of the American Tea Party: an uncompromising and
unrepresentative ideological faction capable of massive political disruption but
zero creativity.

Europe and immigration are the two talismans. But British business, large and
small, knows that to exit the EU and relinquish the chance to shape its rules is
folly. Yet the party purporting to champion enterprise is bent on weakening it.

No one should doubt the extent of the conviction of the Eurosceptic right. It
plots that the party will lose in 2015, elect a Eurosceptic leader, and win in
2020 - in the aftermath of a Miliband government it will have wrecked - on a
promise to leave the EU with no referendum. Then the party will be free to
complete Mrs Thatcher's unfinished business. Mr Cameron's manoeuvres - promising
a permanently smaller state and an EU referendum, dismissing greenness as crap -
are concessions he has to make to keep any semblance of party unity. His
modernising project is dead, inducing the despairing Mr Boles to float the idea
of a new liberal Tory party.

Maybe Britain will have to go through the catharsis of being misgoverned by the
sceptic, rogue right to rid itself of the real enemy within. Maybe Mr Miliband
will have the political luck and judgment to forge a long-term governing
coalition, embracing progressive business, which can succeed. What is certain is
that in times that are distrustful of politicians, politics has rarely been more
important - or the stakes higher.

Captions:

David Cameron out local election canvassing in Witney, Oxfordshire, last year.
Rex


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 24, 2013

Comment: Does the narrow and regressive Tory party have a death wish?: Even
David Cameron no longer affects to be a moderniser as Conservatives retreat to
their comfort zones

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1198 words


The Conservative party is at odds and at a loss. The combination of Ukip, voter
disaffection and the ongoing pressure on living standards means the likelihood
of David Cameron doing what neither Margaret Thatcher nor Tony Blair managed to
do - lifting the share of the vote after an initial general election victory -
is very low.

As a result, it is nearly certain there will be fewer than 300 Tory MPs in the
next parliament. And, given the biases in the electoral system, along with
growing acknowledgement that Mr Miliband may have some answers, there are almost
certain to be more than 300 Labour MPs. For the Tory party whose vocation is to
rule, this is unacceptable and it is opening up a fundamental debate about what
Toryism means.

John Major is emboldened to intervene and remind his party of a different
conservative tradition. Importantly, he was the last Tory leader to win a
parliamentary majority. Tory MP Jesse Norman invokes Edmund Burke and his
instinct to conserve institutions better to serve the mass of the citizenship.
Some to his right insist the answer is make populist common cause with Ukip.
Boris Johnson tells us we must celebrate the rich. Last week, Nick Boles, the
minister for planning, entered the soul-searching, declaring that his party's
single biggest problem was that it is still seen as the party of the rich; the
public does not trust its motives, even if it likes its policies.

I have to disabuse the courageous Mr Boles - the problem goes much deeper. The
country does not like Tory policies and values. Britain at its core has a
profound commitment to fair play and the rule of law; it has a good-humoured
decency and pride in the country. The institutions that command its affections
include the NHS, the BBC, the tortured Church of England, the National Theatre,
the courts, the British army, all of which in varying degrees are wholly
detached from the contemporary Conservative project. The Tories are not just the
party of the rich - they have gone rogue.

Toryism was never an inventive institution builder nor creative reforming force.
Its agenda for much of the 150 years up to the end of the First World War was
essentially defensive and narrowly based. Whigs, then liberals, defined the
country's trajectory, owning the reformist, pro-science Enlightenment tradition
and defining Britishness. The Tories were the party of the country and its
regressive, anti-modern instincts.

What gave the Tory party its lien on power was the arrival of British socialism
and the collapse of the Liberal party, many of whose MPs, such as Winston
Churchill, became Conservatives. The fusion with the liberal tradition allowed
the party to become a very broad church, the one nation party Disraeli had
wanted it to be.

Harold Macmillan could champion the middle way; Michael Heseltine fought his
first parliamentary seat as a National Liberal in alliance with the Tories.
These broad church Tories embodied a non-socialist idea of Britain as the
defender of enterprise and the country's core institutions before the socialist
challenge. They accepted a sufficiently activist state discharging its
obligations to the less well-off and the party's leaders were validated by being
at the apex of the social pinnacle.

But unlike German Christian Democrats or Eisenhower Republicans, Britain's
Tories were never the wholehearted allies of industry, innovation and
technology, nor willing to subordinate the City and finance determinedly to
drive British companies forward. They were gentlemanly capitalists happy to live
on the bounty of two centuries of empire. They defined the political and
economic problem as the Labour party and trade unions rather than the City and
deep dysfunctions in the way British companies were owned and their lack of
investment and innovation.

Margaret Thatcher's talent was to use the language of the fashionable free
market to slay traditional Tory enemies - unions and nationalised industries -
but in so doing to dodge what really needed tackling. Indeed, Thatcherite
deregulation made finance yet more powerful, with baleful results. She never
converted the people: the mass of Britons still look to the state for redress
and leadership. Opinion polls show massive majorities in favour of
renationalising the rail and energy companies. The public sees them as utilities
whose mission is to serve them, not as profit-maximising plcs and the state as
guarantor of that mission. It also looks to the state to create acceptable
levels of fairness and to hold the elite to account for its mistakes and
failures. The public is right to do so.

David Cameron understood that reclaiming the Tory majority would mean remaking
the compact with liberal Enlightenment Britain. The NHS would be safe in his
hands; his government would be the greenest ever; he would champion the Big
Society, the aid budget and science; he would revive civic Britain; he would
bring an integrity to government and have a truce with the EU. But his party, it
is now obvious, was never persuaded. It wants to carry on where Mrs Thatcher
left off - regressing to a comfort zone of smiting traditional enemies even if
the returns are likely to be non-existent or, as in leaving the EU,
self-defeating.

The interaction of a conservative, Thatcher-celebrating media with Conservative
party constituency associations that in effect command rotten boroughs, despite
their tiny membership, has made internal Tory politics close to unmanageable.
MPs are returned reflecting comfort-zone politics rather than those of a broader
coalition. The result is that the animating element in today's Toryism is a
British version of the American Tea Party: an uncompromising and
unrepresentative ideological faction capable of massive political disruption but
zero creativity.

Europe and immigration are the two talismans. But British business, large and
small, knows that to exit the EU and relinquish the chance to shape its rules is
folly. Yet the party purporting to champion enterprise is bent on weakening it.

No one should doubt the extent of the conviction of the Eurosceptic right. It
plots that the party will lose in 2015, elect a Eurosceptic leader, and win in
2020 - in the aftermath of a Miliband government it will have wrecked - on a
promise to leave the EU with no referendum. Then the party will be free to
complete Mrs Thatcher's unfinished business. Mr Cameron's manoeuvres - promising
a permanently smaller state and an EU referendum, dismissing greenness as crap -
are concessions he has to make to keep any semblance of party unity. His
modernising project is dead, inducing the despairing Mr Boles to float the idea
of a new liberal Tory party.

Maybe Britain will have to go through the catharsis of being misgoverned by the
sceptic, rogue right to rid itself of the real enemy within. Maybe Mr Miliband
will have the political luck and judgment to forge a long-term governing
coalition, embracing progressive business, which can succeed. What is certain is
that in times that are distrustful of politicians, politics has rarely been more
important - or the stakes higher.

Captions:

David Cameron out local election canvassing in Witney, Oxfordshire, last year.
Rex


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 17, 2013

Comment: What does Mr Cameron believe in? His own ministers aren't sure: The
Tory leader's lack of deep convictions has been good for coalition relations,
but bad for dealing with his party

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1496 words


Not long after David Cameron became leader of his party, Labour ran a mocking
political broadcast featuring a cartoon character called Dave the chameleon. The
soundtrack was provided by Culture Club singing "I'm a man with no conviction".
It was a textbook case of how an attack can inadvertently help an opponent. Tory
brand managers were delighted by this presentation of their man as a cute,
bicycle-riding creature who could adapt himself to a rainbow of colours. This
was exactly the impression he was trying to convey to woo voters who had
previously rejected the Conservatives for being too harshly ideological. This
was also a time when he had taken up the environment as an issue - "Vote Blue,
Go Green" - to project himself as a new kind of Tory leader. The chameleon idea
helped him with that too, so much so that he joked that it was his favourite
video.

This was the "modernising" phase of Cameron. It was quite some time ago now and
it did not even happen at all according to the Conservative party, which has
just conducted a digital purge of its website. All the speeches, videos and
press releases from before 2010 have been expunged. Airbrushed from Tory history
has been that period when chameleon Cameron pledged to stick to Gordon Brown's
spending plans, repudiated Margaret Thatcher by declaring that there was "such a
thing as society", proclaimed that "hoodies" needed "more love" and cried: "Let
sunshine win the day!"

As far as the Tory party is concerned, Cameron 1.0 never existed. Since it is
beyond their powers to wipe our memories as well, some of us can still recall
that time when his pitch was as a centrist, modern Tory who variously described
himself as a liberal, compassionate or One Nation Conservative. We can also
remember the electoral point of it, which was to win over voters who had been
repelled by his party in the past. We can further recall, which the Tory party
seems to have forgotten, that it was really rather successful for a while.

Some of it survived into government. He legislated for gay marriage against
raging internal opposition, though it is a bit moot whether he would have done
so had he known just how much trouble that would cause with his party. Another
legacy of his modernising period, the commitment to increase overseas aid, has
also been kept. He stuck to that one even when many Tories, including some of
his closest allies, urged him to drop it.

More numerous are those examples of Tory modernisation that have been abandoned.
He came to office on a pledge not to mess with the NHS and then allowed Andrew
Lansley to unleash one of the biggest, and most expensive, upheavals in its
history, a reorganisation that will be blamed, whether fairly or not, if there
is a winter flu crisis. The "Big Society" shrivelled, curled up and died. In
opposition, the Tory leader attacked "capitalism without a conscience" and
"markets without morality" - stronger stuff than you get from Ed Miliband. Yet
he now calls the Labour leader a Marxist for suggesting that energy companies
are overcharging their customers. The green agenda has been impeded all along by
a chancellor who never believed in it and now Mr Cameron seems prepared to chuck
it aside in his panic to find a response to Labour's pledge to cap bills.

What happened? The conventional answer from Tory modernisers is one word:
austerity. Being a "compassionate Conservative" was impossible to make
compatible with presiding over deep spending cuts. A member of the cabinet once
said to me: "The problem is that we have a sunshine prime minister in rainy
days." Still, what was quite impressive about his early period in office was
that he did try to reconcile the two. In his New Year message of 2011, he
declared: "I didn't come into politics to make cuts", presenting himself as
motivated by difficult necessity, not ideological zeal. What a contrast with his
speech to the lord mayor's banquet last week in which he seemed to advocate a
never-ending squeeze on public spending by arguing for "a leaner state".

For some, this tore away what remained of the compassionate Conservative mask.
Or it could be another case of Mr Cameron bearing the impression of the last
person who sat on him. In this case, it would be George Osborne, a more
ideologically sharp character than his friend at Number 10. The chancellor wants
to shift the political battle back on to the size of the national debt and away
from living standards, Labour's best territory.

One view of David Cameron is that he didn't really believe a word of it in the
first place. Tory modernisation was only ever a shallow rebranding exercise. It
is probably closer to the mark to say that he never developed it sufficiently,
nor succeeded in converting enough of his party, to make it robust when
confronted by all the adversities and events that hit a leader. He recently
likened being prime minister to "being in an asteroid shower, things flying at
you every day". That suggests he sees the principal challenge of leadership as
dodging incoming projectiles rather than steering by any particular lodestar.

Recently, I've been asking senior government figures a fairly straightforward
question: what does the prime minister believe in? One supporter ventured
"responsibility", a solid-sounding word and at the same time a vague one. One
cabinet member smiled at my invitation to explain the prime minister's
convictions before replying: "Good question." Another senior minister exploded:
"I don't think he believes in bloody anything!" A third said: "The trouble with
Cameron is that 90% of his ambition was fulfilled the night he walked over the
threshold of Number 10."

This is a critique that is shared by observers of his premiership from the left
and disappointed spectators on the right, who include some people who would
claim to be his friend. He loves being prime minister, they say, but he is not
that interested in changing the country. David Cameron doesn't see all that much
wrong with a world in which he and people like him are in charge.

Perhaps the most plausible explanation of what makes him tick came from within
Downing Street. "He sees it as his job to look in charge and respond coolly to
events as they arise while gradually nudging the country in a more Tory
direction."

He is not a philosopher-politician and, to be fair, has never pretended to be
one. The first time I interviewed him as Tory leader, he physically recoiled
when I asked him to define Cameronism.

Talking about the coalition the other day, he remarked that on the whole there
was much to be said for compromise in politics and in life. That is one of his
unforgivable crimes in the eyes of the more ideologically fervent members of his
party who complain that he is not really a Tory at all. That is not only wrong,
it also fails to appreciate the virtues of having a compromiser as a leader at
this period of their history. A less flexible personality would have found it
much harder to form the coalition with the Lib Dems and then to keep a
double-headed government on the road for so long. In his early period at Number
10, the willingness to share power with another party in the national interest
was highly attractive in the eyes of many voters. To an extent, it still is. He
remains more popular than his party.

A virtue in handling coalition relations, his lack of many deep-seated
convictions has been a vice when it comes to dealing with his own tribe. He has
appeased rather than confronted the right of his party. They have squeezed him
for concessions throughout his premiership. His most spectacular defeat at their
hands was pledging a referendum on EU membership. If it ever happens, it will be
one of the greatest ironies of his premiership that he will be defined by a
referendum that he never wanted.

Because he didn't sufficiently develop an idea of modern Toryism for the 21st
century, he defaults under pressure back to conventional rightwing positions.
The Conservatives are defining themselves as the party of welfare cuts,
immigration controls, deficit reduction, spending squeezes and loathing for
Europe, which wasn't the original idea at all. The man who once embraced
coalition with the Lib Dems as another way of demonstrating that he was a One
Nation Tory now snarls at Nick Clegg for stopping him being as rightwing as he
would like. Tory tribalists may like the sound of that, but it dismays those in
his party who understand that Conservatism only attracts support across the
country when it is broadly appealing.

One of the worried is the last Tory leader to win an election, Sir John Major.
He has gone public with his fears that his party has forgotten that it needs to
demonstrate that it has "a heart and a social conscience" and is retreating
rightwards into a narrow Tory "comfort zone".

Labour might now have more success with Dave the chameleon than they did when it
was first broadcast. Said the narrator: "Underneath it all, he was still blue,
through and through."


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 17, 2013

What does Mr Cameron believe in? His own ministers aren't sure: The Tory
leader's lack of deep convictions has been good for coalition relations, but bad
for dealing with his party

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1496 words


Not long after David Cameron became leader of his party, Labour ran a mocking
political broadcast featuring a cartoon character called Dave the chameleon. The
soundtrack was provided by Culture Club singing "I'm a man with no conviction".
It was a textbook case of how an attack can inadvertently help an opponent. Tory
brand managers were delighted by this presentation of their man as a cute,
bicycle-riding creature who could adapt himself to a rainbow of colours. This
was exactly the impression he was trying to convey to woo voters who had
previously rejected the Conservatives for being too harshly ideological. This
was also a time when he had taken up the environment as an issue - "Vote Blue,
Go Green" - to project himself as a new kind of Tory leader. The chameleon idea
helped him with that too, so much so that he joked that it was his favourite
video.

This was the "modernising" phase of Cameron. It was quite some time ago now and
it did not even happen at all according to the Conservative party, which has
just conducted a digital purge of its website. All the speeches, videos and
press releases from before 2010 have been expunged. Airbrushed from Tory history
has been that period when chameleon Cameron pledged to stick to Gordon Brown's
spending plans, repudiated Margaret Thatcher by declaring that there was "such a
thing as society", proclaimed that "hoodies" needed "more love" and cried: "Let
sunshine win the day!"

As far as the Tory party is concerned, Cameron 1.0 never existed. Since it is
beyond their powers to wipe our memories as well, some of us can still recall
that time when his pitch was as a centrist, modern Tory who variously described
himself as a liberal, compassionate or One Nation Conservative. We can also
remember the electoral point of it, which was to win over voters who had been
repelled by his party in the past. We can further recall, which the Tory party
seems to have forgotten, that it was really rather successful for a while.

Some of it survived into government. He legislated for gay marriage against
raging internal opposition, though it is a bit moot whether he would have done
so had he known just how much trouble that would cause with his party. Another
legacy of his modernising period, the commitment to increase overseas aid, has
also been kept. He stuck to that one even when many Tories, including some of
his closest allies, urged him to drop it.

More numerous are those examples of Tory modernisation that have been abandoned.
He came to office on a pledge not to mess with the NHS and then allowed Andrew
Lansley to unleash one of the biggest, and most expensive, upheavals in its
history, a reorganisation that will be blamed, whether fairly or not, if there
is a winter flu crisis. The "Big Society" shrivelled, curled up and died. In
opposition, the Tory leader attacked "capitalism without a conscience" and
"markets without morality" - stronger stuff than you get from Ed Miliband. Yet
he now calls the Labour leader a Marxist for suggesting that energy companies
are overcharging their customers. The green agenda has been impeded all along by
a chancellor who never believed in it and now Mr Cameron seems prepared to chuck
it aside in his panic to find a response to Labour's pledge to cap bills.

What happened? The conventional answer from Tory modernisers is one word:
austerity. Being a "compassionate Conservative" was impossible to make
compatible with presiding over deep spending cuts. A member of the cabinet once
said to me: "The problem is that we have a sunshine prime minister in rainy
days." Still, what was quite impressive about his early period in office was
that he did try to reconcile the two. In his New Year message of 2011, he
declared: "I didn't come into politics to make cuts", presenting himself as
motivated by difficult necessity, not ideological zeal. What a contrast with his
speech to the lord mayor's banquet last week in which he seemed to advocate a
never-ending squeeze on public spending by arguing for "a leaner state".

For some, this tore away what remained of the compassionate Conservative mask.
Or it could be another case of Mr Cameron bearing the impression of the last
person who sat on him. In this case, it would be George Osborne, a more
ideologically sharp character than his friend at Number 10. The chancellor wants
to shift the political battle back on to the size of the national debt and away
from living standards, Labour's best territory.

One view of David Cameron is that he didn't really believe a word of it in the
first place. Tory modernisation was only ever a shallow rebranding exercise. It
is probably closer to the mark to say that he never developed it sufficiently,
nor succeeded in converting enough of his party, to make it robust when
confronted by all the adversities and events that hit a leader. He recently
likened being prime minister to "being in an asteroid shower, things flying at
you every day". That suggests he sees the principal challenge of leadership as
dodging incoming projectiles rather than steering by any particular lodestar.

Recently, I've been asking senior government figures a fairly straightforward
question: what does the prime minister believe in? One supporter ventured
"responsibility", a solid-sounding word and at the same time a vague one. One
cabinet member smiled at my invitation to explain the prime minister's
convictions before replying: "Good question." Another senior minister exploded:
"I don't think he believes in bloody anything!" A third said: "The trouble with
Cameron is that 90% of his ambition was fulfilled the night he walked over the
threshold of Number 10."

This is a critique that is shared by observers of his premiership from the left
and disappointed spectators on the right, who include some people who would
claim to be his friend. He loves being prime minister, they say, but he is not
that interested in changing the country. David Cameron doesn't see all that much
wrong with a world in which he and people like him are in charge.

Perhaps the most plausible explanation of what makes him tick came from within
Downing Street. "He sees it as his job to look in charge and respond coolly to
events as they arise while gradually nudging the country in a more Tory
direction."

He is not a philosopher-politician and, to be fair, has never pretended to be
one. The first time I interviewed him as Tory leader, he physically recoiled
when I asked him to define Cameronism.

Talking about the coalition the other day, he remarked that on the whole there
was much to be said for compromise in politics and in life. That is one of his
unforgivable crimes in the eyes of the more ideologically fervent members of his
party who complain that he is not really a Tory at all. That is not only wrong,
it also fails to appreciate the virtues of having a compromiser as a leader at
this period of their history. A less flexible personality would have found it
much harder to form the coalition with the Lib Dems and then to keep a
double-headed government on the road for so long. In his early period at Number
10, the willingness to share power with another party in the national interest
was highly attractive in the eyes of many voters. To an extent, it still is. He
remains more popular than his party.

A virtue in handling coalition relations, his lack of many deep-seated
convictions has been a vice when it comes to dealing with his own tribe. He has
appeased rather than confronted the right of his party. They have squeezed him
for concessions throughout his premiership. His most spectacular defeat at their
hands was pledging a referendum on EU membership. If it ever happens, it will be
one of the greatest ironies of his premiership that he will be defined by a
referendum that he never wanted.

Because he didn't sufficiently develop an idea of modern Toryism for the 21st
century, he defaults under pressure back to conventional rightwing positions.
The Conservatives are defining themselves as the party of welfare cuts,
immigration controls, deficit reduction, spending squeezes and loathing for
Europe, which wasn't the original idea at all. The man who once embraced
coalition with the Lib Dems as another way of demonstrating that he was a One
Nation Tory now snarls at Nick Clegg for stopping him being as rightwing as he
would like. Tory tribalists may like the sound of that, but it dismays those in
his party who understand that Conservatism only attracts support across the
country when it is broadly appealing.

One of the worried is the last Tory leader to win an election, Sir John Major.
He has gone public with his fears that his party has forgotten that it needs to
demonstrate that it has "a heart and a social conscience" and is retreating
rightwards into a narrow Tory "comfort zone".

Labour might now have more success with Dave the chameleon than they did when it
was first broadcast. Said the narrator: "Underneath it all, he was still blue,
through and through."


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                November 3, 2013

Osborne and the 'septics' are not entitled to their own facts

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 881 words


The late senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan once told an opponent: "Everyone is
entitled to his own opinion, but not to his own facts." This astute comment came
to mind when that great pro-European Peter Sutherland - he who, among other
things, licked the World Trade Organisation into shape - made a nice observation
at the recent launch of The UK & Europe: Costs, Benefits, Options, under the
auspices of Regent's University, London.

Sutherland recalled an exchange with a Eurosceptic - or "Euroseptic", as Sir
Edward Heath would have said - in which his interlocutor accused him of being
"biased towards facts".

Subtitled The Regent's Report 2013, the 237-page document is going to be useful
to all sides if we do have to go through what I myself regard as an unnecessary
and time-wasting referendum on our membership of the European Union.

For a group of authors who are largely pro-European - and some, even now,
pro-eurozone - they have produced a remarkably balanced document, with the
emphasis on - wait for it - facts. There is plenty of acknowledgement of the
tiresome aspects of the EU, and among a plethora of statistics, some obvious
ones stand out.

These will not be new to students of the EU, but you can be sure they will not
be highlighted by the anti-Europe brigade - many of whom have very nice houses
in France, Spain, Italy and other parts of the EU. Suffice it to repeat here
that, for all the fuss made by the anti-European press and Ukip, the entire
"Brussels budget" amounts to 1% of EU gross domestic product.

Confusion can be worse confounded when it comes to facts. With economic
statistics, we are often talking about estimates rather than facts. I have never
found any evidence that Keynes made the remark often attributed to him: "When
the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?"

The explanation is simple: Keynes was far too intelligent to believe that facts
could change. Facts are facts. Circumstances can change, and new information or
more refined calculation can alter previous estimates.

Which brings us to the present position, and what one has to admire as the
superb propaganda of the chancellor. According to George Osborne's
interpretation of events, the recent crisis was caused by the profligacy of the
Brown government, as was the putative need for austerity. And, hey presto,
thanks to his brave programme of austerity, focused to a considerable extent on
short-sighted cuts in public sector investment and mean-minded attacks on
welfare, austerity has produced "recovery" and growth.

On the subject of mean-minded attacks on the poor, my old friend Sir John Major
is to be congratulated for his recent observation that too many vulnerable
citizens face a choice this winter as to whether to eat or heat.

Far too many people have swallowed Osborne's line, failing to appreciate that,
with the obvious exception of Greece, the crisis was caused by the banks and
other financial institutions, not public spending. It was the financial crisis
that caused the bulk of the increase in the public sector debt. Moreover, a
recovery was under way three years ago, until Osborne took measures to abort it.

Now, within a matter of months, some commentators have moved from talking up a
recovery that wasn't there to worrying about the pace of the recent upturn, with
GDP estimated to have expanded at an annual rate of 3.3% in the third quarter
(in real terms). But, as Russell Jones points out in the latest bulletin from
Llewellyn Consulting, "issues of the balance and sustainability of [UK] growth
remain".

Investment and construction generally are way below their pre-crisis levels, the
emphasis being on an old-fashioned consumer boom, but one that is being fuelled
not by real incomes - which are depressed - but by cheap credit and consumer
decisions that rely on the persistence of unusually low interest rates.

The biggest scandal of all is that policy is concentrating on encouraging a boom
not in housebuilding, but in house prices. Like the Bourbons, the coalition and
the Bank of England have learned nothing and forgotten nothing.

The Bank of England? In his early days the new governor, Mark Carney, talked
about the need for "escape velocity" in the economy. His innovation was "forward
guidance", which was supposed to reassure people that interest rates would
remain low for a very long time. But already his chief economist is talking
about moving to more "normal" levels of interest rates - which will be a blow to
many - and speculating about the end of forward guidance when it has hardly
begun.

However, the real coup for the Bourbon strategy is Carney's quite remarkably
complacent attitude towards the future of the City of London. He seems to see a
future in which a still largely unreformed banking system gets bigger and
bigger, with even more of the leverage that made such a marked contribution to
the financial crisis. True, he believes there can be reform. I wonder.

This is a dangerous game. Meanwhile, though Labour worries that Osborne may get
away with his pre-election boom, the chancellor may be hoist by his own petard.
It was Osborne who insisted on a five-year term. I have a feeling that by the
summer of 2015 his cynical and reckless policy will have blown up in his face,
and be seen for what it has always been.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                November 3, 2013

Business Analysis: IN MY VIEW: Osborne and the 'septics' are not entitled to
their own facts

BYLINE: William Keegan

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 881 words


The late senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan once told an opponent: "Everyone is
entitled to his own opinion, but not to his own facts." This astute comment came
to mind when that great pro-European Peter Sutherland - he who, among other
things, licked the World Trade Organisation into shape - made a nice observation
at the recent launch of The UK & Europe: Costs, Benefits, Options, under the
auspices of Regent's University, London.

Sutherland recalled an exchange with a Eurosceptic - or "Euroseptic", as Sir
Edward Heath would have said - in which his interlocutor accused him of being
"biased towards facts".

Subtitled The Regent's Report 2013, the 237-page document is going to be useful
to all sides if we do have to go through what I myself regard as an unnecessary
and time-wasting referendum on our membership of the European Union.

For a group of authors who are largely pro-European - and some, even now,
pro-eurozone - they have produced a remarkably balanced document, with the
emphasis on - wait for it - facts. There is plenty of acknowledgement of the
tiresome aspects of the EU, and among a plethora of statistics, some obvious
ones stand out.

These will not be new to students of the EU, but you can be sure they will not
be highlighted by the anti-Europe brigade - many of whom have very nice houses
in France, Spain, Italy and other parts of the EU. Suffice it to repeat here
that, for all the fuss made by the anti-European press and Ukip, the entire
"Brussels budget" amounts to 1% of EU gross domestic product.

Confusion can be worse confounded when it comes to facts. With economic
statistics, we are often talking about estimates rather than facts. I have never
found any evidence that Keynes made the remark often attributed to him: "When
the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?"

The explanation is simple: Keynes was far too intelligent to believe that facts
could change. Facts are facts. Circumstances can change, and new information or
more refined calculation can alter previous estimates.

Which brings us to the present position, and what one has to admire as the
superb propaganda of the chancellor. According to George Osborne's
interpretation of events, the recent crisis was caused by the profligacy of the
Brown government, as was the putative need for austerity. And, hey presto,
thanks to his brave programme of austerity, focused to a considerable extent on
short-sighted cuts in public sector investment and mean-minded attacks on
welfare, austerity has produced "recovery" and growth.

On the subject of mean-minded attacks on the poor, my old friend Sir John Major
is to be congratulated for his recent observation that too many vulnerable
citizens face a choice this winter as to whether to eat or heat.

Far too many people have swallowed Osborne's line, failing to appreciate that,
with the obvious exception of Greece, the crisis was caused by the banks and
other financial institutions, not public spending. It was the financial crisis
that caused the bulk of the increase in the public sector debt. Moreover, a
recovery was under way three years ago, until Osborne took measures to abort it.

Now, within a matter of months, some commentators have moved from talking up a
recovery that wasn't there to worrying about the pace of the recent upturn, with
GDP estimated to have expanded at an annual rate of 3.3% in the third quarter
(in real terms). But, as Russell Jones points out in the latest bulletin from
Llewellyn Consulting, "issues of the balance and sustainability of [UK] growth
remain".

Investment and construction generally are way below their pre-crisis levels, the
emphasis being on an old-fashioned consumer boom, but one that is being fuelled
not by real incomes - which are depressed - but by cheap credit and consumer
decisions that rely on the persistence of unusually low interest rates.

The biggest scandal of all is that policy is concentrating on encouraging a boom
not in housebuilding, but in house prices. Like the Bourbons, the coalition and
the Bank of England have learned nothing and forgotten nothing.

The Bank of England? In his early days the new governor, Mark Carney, talked
about the need for "escape velocity" in the economy. His innovation was "forward
guidance", which was supposed to reassure people that interest rates would
remain low for a very long time. But already his chief economist is talking
about moving to more "normal" levels of interest rates - which will be a blow to
many - and speculating about the end of forward guidance when it has hardly
begun.

However, the real coup for the Bourbon strategy is Carney's quite remarkably
complacent attitude towards the future of the City of London. He seems to see a
future in which a still largely unreformed banking system gets bigger and
bigger, with even more of the leverage that made such a marked contribution to
the financial crisis. True, he believes there can be reform. I wonder.

This is a dangerous game. Meanwhile, though Labour worries that Osborne may get
away with his pre-election boom, the chancellor may be hoist by his own petard.
It was Osborne who insisted on a five-year term. I have a feeling that by the
summer of 2015 his cynical and reckless policy will have blown up in his face,
and be seen for what it has always been.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 6, 2013

Blair was better than Tories on Europe: Clegg: Deputy prime minister to describe
referendum plan as 'political fix' to placate Eurosceptic right

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey Policy Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 604 words


Nick Clegg will launch a far-reaching assault on the chancellor and prime
minister this week in a landmark speech on Europe, negatively comparing David
Cameron's leadership within the EU with that of Tony Blair.

The deputy prime minister will turn on his most senior coalition colleagues,
accusing George Osborne of endangering the British economic recovery by issuing
threats of an exit.

He will describe Cameron's promise to repatriate powers and then hold a
referendum on continued membership of a reformed EU by the end of 2017 as a
deeply-flawed "political fix" to "plaster over their [the Tories'] internal
divisions on Europe". In stark contrast to what he describes as Cameron's
short-sighted political calculation, Clegg will point to what he describes as
the successes of Blair and Margaret Thatcher in leading and shaping Europe.

The Liberal Democrat leader, in some of his strongest language yet on the
crucial issue, is expected to say: "The promise of unilateral repatriation was
made when the Conservative party needed a way to plaster over their internal
divisions on Europe. They needed a position that, in the lead up to the
election, all sides can get behind - a policy fix.

"But it's a short-sighted political calculation that could jeopardise the
long-term national interest. It is playing with fire and, if we go down this
track, it is Britain that will get burned." Clegg, a former MEP, who insists
that Cameron's policy of pandering to his Eurosceptic wing is "bound to
unravel", is expected to add: "Our experiences only prove what we have seen with
every government for the last 60 years: if you want Europe to deliver for
Britain, you have to lead. Margaret Thatcher led when she helped pioneer the
single market. Tony Blair led when he and Jaqcues Chirac launched EU defence and
security co-operation."

During his speech on Tuesday, at the London headquarters of Swiss technology
company, the Buhler Group, Clegg will reassert his party's commitment to an
in/out referendum on Europe - but only at the time of a transfer of power from
the UK to the EU. The Liberal Democrats are keen to plant in the public mind
that Labour is the only party not signed up to a referendum. But he also wants
to emphasise the dividing lines with the Conservatives ahead of European
elections in May. Clegg, while pledging to seek reform of the EU where it is
wasteful, intrusive or unfair, will warn of the damage done to British interests
by the anti-European rhetoric employed by some ministers, including Osborne. And
he is expected to throw doubt on those who believe that hardline Tory
Eurosceptics can be won round by a reform of EU powers, saying the "process is
just a smokescreen for exit".

Clegg will claim that Cameron and others are playing a dangerous game that
threatens the UK with "economic suicide". He will add: "Senior - and usually
moderate - voices in the Conservative party have now openly flirted with the
idea of leaving; the mayor of London insisting we should be ready to walk away;
the chancellor issuing threats of exit in German newspapers. That rhetoric has
been toned down more recently. I expect they've realised that threatening to
flounce out of the EU is hardly the best way to appeal to British business.

"But the threats certainly haven't been forgotten in Europe's capitals. The
hardliners have been stoked up. And next May the Euro elections are bound to
become a proxy for the bigger question of in versus out - a debate that will
play out in the 2015 general election too.

"Leaving the EU would be economic suicide. You cannot overstate the damage it
would do to British prosperity."


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 6, 2013

Clegg attacks Tories' 'flawed' EU policies

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey Policy Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 334 words


Nick Clegg will launch a far-reaching assault on the chancellor and prime
minister this week in a landmark speech on Europe, negatively comparing David
Cameron's leadership within the EU to that of Tony Blair.

The deputy prime minister will turn on his most senior coalition colleagues,
accusing George Osborne of endangering the British economic recovery by issuing
threats of an exit.

He will describe Cameron's promise to repatriate powers and then hold a
referendum on continued membership of a reformed EU by the end of 2017 as a
deeply-flawed "political fix" to "plaster over their [the Tories'] internal
divisions on Europe".

In stark contrast to what he describes as Cameron's short-sighted political
calculation, Clegg will point to what he describes as the successes of Blair and
Margaret Thatcher in leading and shaping Europe.

The Liberal Democrat leader, in some of his strongest language yet on the
crucial issue, is expected to say: "The promise of unilateral repatriation was
made when the Conservative party needed to find a way to plaster over their
internal divisions on Europe. They needed a position that, in the lead up to the
election, all sides can get behind - a policy fix.

"But it's a short -sighted political calculation that could jeopardise the
long-term national interest. It is playing with fire and, if we go down this
track, it is Britain that will get burned."

Clegg, a former MEP, who insists that Cameron's policy of pandering to his
eurosceptic wing is "bound to unravel", is expected to add: "Our experiences
only prove what we have seen with every government for the last 60 years: if you
want Europe to deliver for Britain, you have to lead. Margaret Thatcher led when
she helped pioneer the single market. Tony Blair led when he and Jaqcues Chirac
launched EU defence and security cooperation."

During his speech on Tuesday, Clegg will reassert his party's commitment to an
in/out referendum on Europe - but only at the time of a transfer of power from
the UK to the EU.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 15, 2013

Strong and responsible unions lead to a stable economy: THE BIG ISSUE UNIONS

BYLINE: Lars Patterson Greg Wilkinson Paul Morrison Ian Pope

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 639 words


I compliment you on your editorial last week ("A powerless workforce weakens us
all"). I am a Norwegian economist who has lived and worked in London for 27
years. Strong and responsible unions are in my view one of the reasons that the
Norwegian economy is doing well. The same can be said for Sweden and Denmark.

The unions in Scandinavia have given priority to employment for all, decent
working conditions and a fair distribution of income. A drive to strengthen
unions and increase union membership in the UK would in my opinion inevitably
result in a stronger and fairer UK economy. Strong unions are bound to be
responsible. Thank you for raising the subject in your editorial. Maybe the
Observer and the Guardian could launch a campaign with a series of articles to
get more people to join unions and engage with the broader issues of full
employment and a fair deal for all, rather than local disputes on individual
pay?

I sometimes have the impression that many people in the UK are not well informed
about the benefits of good and strong trade unions.

Lars Patterson

London SE27

More people would join unions and the Labour party if they offered a clearer
approach to equality in earnings and wealth. Redress requires redistribution:
living wage, guaranteed minimum income, progressive taxation of income and
property. And a cap on top incomes.

It also requires "predistribution": democratic reallocation of rewards and
benefits within the bodies that employ us and produce our goods and services.

Unions could play a more constructive part in industry if all employees were
legally entitled to a voice in corporate remuneration and policymaking.
Companies should have to state just what, apart from profit, they are in
business for. And be held accountable. Company reports should feature their
current pay ratios: top, median and bottom. The Labour party could work in and
out of government, across society, to narrow the gaps that separate and hold us
back, open new paths and combine efforts in a more satisfying and sustainable
social economy. Nobody labours for labour's sake, but most of us like a good
party.

Greg Wilkinson

Swansea

Andrew Rawnsley ("Ed Miliband can't retreat from his battle with the union
bosses", Comment, last week) seems to believe that what can turn things around
for Ed Miliband is "an issue on which he can be unquestionably brave and
undeniably principled and clearly willing to do the right thing".

Might this issue be the economy, NHS reforms, the universal credit debacle,
youth unemployment, education, the bedroom tax or the EU referendum?

No. What Rawnsley seems to think will transform the dire poll ratings for
Miliband is an arcane row with the unions over party funding less than two years
before a general election.

It is this kind of political village logic that will sadly result in a highly
likely defeat for Labour and another miserable five years of coalition
government.

Paul Morrison

Derry

N Ireland

Andrew Rawnsley states that the trade unions' block vote, at Labour party
conferences, will have to be abolished as a result of Ed Miliband's reforms.
Historically, the union block vote has been more of a benefit than a hindrance
to the party leadership when pushing controversial measures through the
conference. General secretaries have cut backroom deals for concessions in
exchange for their support in votes that the leadership may otherwise have lost.
The unions have voted for measures that restricted the rights of constituency
parties and have cast their block vote for proposals that are against their own
stated policies. There will be mixed feelings if the union block vote is
abolished. It has often allowed the leadership to save face. In future, the
stage management of the conference will be much more difficult.

Ian Pope

Southend-on-Sea

Captions:

Last week's Observer editorial.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 15, 2013

Blow to Cameron's bid to curb 'benefit tourism': Lords committee and Europe say
ministers are struggling to find evidence of abuse

BYLINE: Toby Helm Political Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 619 words


David Cameron's plan to stop EU "benefit tourism" by restricting migrants' legal
right to freedom of movement is running into serious difficulties after a
parliamentary committee and the European Commission both accused ministers of
failing to provide substantial evidence of widespread abuse.

At the same time, a joint report by the Centre for Economic and Business
Research and global recruitment consultancy Harvey Nash has concluded that any
measures to restrict freedom of movement to the UK from other parts of the EU
would have a devastating effect on the British economy, because EU citizens are
more likely to be in work and are more productive than British-born workers. The
report says that curbing immigration from other parts of the EU could cost the
UK £ 60bn in lost GDP (2% in real terms) by 2050.

News that ministers are struggling to make the case for tighter controls is a
severe blow to Cameron, who wants the changes to be part of a new UK-EU
relationship that he can put to the British people in an in/out referendum on EU
membership by 2017.

Earlier this month Cameron suggested that there could be a way of restricting
entry to "working immigrants" - even if this meant undermining the EU's key
principle of "free movement".

He said: "Could the whole problem of immigration [and] welfare tourism be part
of making sure we have a European relationship that works for Britain? Yes of
course it can."

He added: "We should consider all of these things. I think we particularly need
to look at the rules on benefits. One of the advantages of British membership of
the EU is that British people go and live and work in other countries. But I
think there is a problem with people living [here] and not working."

However, a House of Lords committee whose job is to scrutinise the government's
EU policy, has written to

the immigration minister, Mark Harper, saying that despite several requests the
government has failed to offer anything more than anecdotal claims to back its
assertion that "social benefit tourism" is a real problem.

In a statement to the Observer, the European commissioner for employment and
social affairs, Laszlo Andor, also said that the UK was not proving its
arguments with evidence. "It is important that policy on labour migration within
the EU is based on facts rather than gut feelings or perceptions," he said. "If
there are indeed substantial problems, the commission would of course be willing
to consider how best to address them. We have not received any substantive data
so far."

According to the CEBR/Harvey Nash report, immigrant workers are more likely to
be in work (63%) than UK-born citizens (56.2%) and are more economically active.
It says British businesses rely heavily on immigrant workers. Between 2003 and
2013, the number of non-British EU-born citizens employed in the UK went up from
762,000 to 1,647,000.

Albert Ellis, chief executive of the Harvey Nash Group, said: "Non-UK EU-born
workers are bringing much-needed skills and value to the UK and there is little
evidence that EU immigrants are having a negative impact on wages or
unemployment. In fact, immigrants are helping to create jobs. A broad and
diverse labour market fuels growth, as this report shows."

But a Home Office spokesperson said: "Free movement abuse is a genuine problem
and a growing number of EU member states now share our concerns. We have joined
forces with Germany, Austria and the Netherlands to demand the European
Commission takes action."

The spokesman told of a recurring problem in London with groups of EU nationals
who "arrive in the city, set up camps in public areas and beg and steal from
tourists".

Captions:

The 'benefit tourism' row is a blow to Cameron's EU plans.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 15, 2013

Comment: Letters and emails: The Big Issue: Unions: Strong and responsible
unions lead to a stable economy

BYLINE: Paul Morrison

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 134 words


Andrew Rawnsley ("Ed Miliband can't retreat from his battle with the union
bosses", Comment, last week) seems to believe that what can turn things around
for Ed Miliband is "an issue on which he can be unquestionably brave and
undeniably principled and clearly willing to do the right thing".

Might this issue be the economy, NHS reforms, the universal credit debacle,
youth unemployment, education, the bedroom tax or the EU referendum?

No. What Rawnsley seems to think will transform the dire poll ratings for
Miliband is an arcane row with the unions over party funding less than two years
before a general election.

It is this kind of political village logic that will sadly result in a highly
likely defeat for Labour and another miserable five years of coalition
government.

Paul Morrison

Derry

N Ireland


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 15, 2013

Blow to Cameron's bid to curb 'benefit tourism': Lords committee and Europe say
ministers are struggling to find evidence of abuse

BYLINE: Toby Helm, Political Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 619 words


David Cameron's plan to stop EU "benefit tourism" by restricting migrants' legal
right to freedom of movement is running into serious difficulties after a
parliamentary committee and the European Commission both accused ministers of
failing to provide substantial evidence of widespread abuse.

At the same time, a joint report by the Centre for Economic and Business
Research and global recruitment consultancy Harvey Nash has concluded that any
measures to restrict freedom of movement to the UK from other parts of the EU
would have a devastating effect on the British economy, because EU citizens are
more likely to be in work and are more productive than British-born workers. The
report says that curbing immigration from other parts of the EU could cost the
UK £ 60bn in lost GDP (2% in real terms) by 2050.

News that ministers are struggling to make the case for tighter controls is a
severe blow to Cameron, who wants the changes to be part of a new UK-EU
relationship that he can put to the British people in an in/out referendum on EU
membership by 2017.

Earlier this month Cameron suggested that there could be a way of restricting
entry to "working immigrants" - even if this meant undermining the EU's key
principle of "free movement".

He said: "Could the whole problem of immigration [and] welfare tourism be part
of making sure we have a European relationship that works for Britain? Yes of
course it can."

He added: "We should consider all of these things. I think we particularly need
to look at the rules on benefits. One of the advantages of British membership of
the EU is that British people go and live and work in other countries. But I
think there is a problem with people living [here] and not working."

However, a House of Lords committee whose job is to scrutinise the government's
EU policy, has written to

the immigration minister, Mark Harper, saying that despite several requests the
government has failed to offer anything more than anecdotal claims to back its
assertion that "social benefit tourism" is a real problem.

In a statement to the Observer, the European commissioner for employment and
social affairs, Laszlo Andor, also said that the UK was not proving its
arguments with evidence. "It is important that policy on labour migration within
the EU is based on facts rather than gut feelings or perceptions," he said. "If
there are indeed substantial problems, the commission would of course be willing
to consider how best to address them. We have not received any substantive data
so far."

According to the CEBR/Harvey Nash report, immigrant workers are more likely to
be in work (63%) than UK-born citizens (56.2%) and are more economically active.
It says British businesses rely heavily on immigrant workers. Between 2003 and
2013, the number of non-British EU-born citizens employed in the UK went up from
762,000 to 1,647,000.

Albert Ellis, chief executive of the Harvey Nash Group, said: "Non-UK EU-born
workers are bringing much-needed skills and value to the UK and there is little
evidence that EU immigrants are having a negative impact on wages or
unemployment. In fact, immigrants are helping to create jobs. A broad and
diverse labour market fuels growth, as this report shows."

But a Home Office spokesperson said: "Free movement abuse is a genuine problem
and a growing number of EU member states now share our concerns. We have joined
forces with Germany, Austria and the Netherlands to demand the European
Commission takes action."

The spokesman told of a recurring problem in London with groups of EU nationals
who "arrive in the city, set up camps in public areas and beg and steal from
tourists".

Captions:

The 'benefit tourism' row is a blow to Cameron's EU plans.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 15, 2013

Comment: Letters and emails: The Big Issue: Unions: Strong and responsible
unions lead to a stable economy

BYLINE: Paul Morrison

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 134 words


Andrew Rawnsley ("Ed Miliband can't retreat from his battle with the union
bosses", Comment, last week) seems to believe that what can turn things around
for Ed Miliband is "an issue on which he can be unquestionably brave and
undeniably principled and clearly willing to do the right thing".

Might this issue be the economy, NHS reforms, the universal credit debacle,
youth unemployment, education, the bedroom tax or the EU referendum?

No. What Rawnsley seems to think will transform the dire poll ratings for
Miliband is an arcane row with the unions over party funding less than two years
before a general election.

It is this kind of political village logic that will sadly result in a highly
likely defeat for Labour and another miserable five years of coalition
government.

Paul Morrison

Derry

N Ireland


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 15, 2013

Blow to Cameron's bid to curb 'benefit tourism': Lords committee and Europe say
ministers are struggling to find evidence of abuse

BYLINE: Toby Helm, Political Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 619 words


David Cameron's plan to stop EU "benefit tourism" by restricting migrants' legal
right to freedom of movement is running into serious difficulties after a
parliamentary committee and the European Commission both accused ministers of
failing to provide substantial evidence of widespread abuse.

At the same time, a joint report by the Centre for Economic and Business
Research and global recruitment consultancy Harvey Nash has concluded that any
measures to restrict freedom of movement to the UK from other parts of the EU
would have a devastating effect on the British economy, because EU citizens are
more likely to be in work and are more productive than British-born workers. The
report says that curbing immigration from other parts of the EU could cost the
UK £ 60bn in lost GDP (2% in real terms) by 2050.

News that ministers are struggling to make the case for tighter controls is a
severe blow to Cameron, who wants the changes to be part of a new UK-EU
relationship that he can put to the British people in an in/out referendum on EU
membership by 2017.

Earlier this month Cameron suggested that there could be a way of restricting
entry to "working immigrants" - even if this meant undermining the EU's key
principle of "free movement".

He said: "Could the whole problem of immigration [and] welfare tourism be part
of making sure we have a European relationship that works for Britain? Yes of
course it can."

He added: "We should consider all of these things. I think we particularly need
to look at the rules on benefits. One of the advantages of British membership of
the EU is that British people go and live and work in other countries. But I
think there is a problem with people living [here] and not working."

However, a House of Lords committee whose job is to scrutinise the government's
EU policy, has written to

the immigration minister, Mark Harper, saying that despite several requests the
government has failed to offer anything more than anecdotal claims to back its
assertion that "social benefit tourism" is a real problem.

In a statement to the Observer, the European commissioner for employment and
social affairs, Laszlo Andor, also said that the UK was not proving its
arguments with evidence. "It is important that policy on labour migration within
the EU is based on facts rather than gut feelings or perceptions," he said. "If
there are indeed substantial problems, the commission would of course be willing
to consider how best to address them. We have not received any substantive data
so far."

According to the CEBR/Harvey Nash report, immigrant workers are more likely to
be in work (63%) than UK-born citizens (56.2%) and are more economically active.
It says British businesses rely heavily on immigrant workers. Between 2003 and
2013, the number of non-British EU-born citizens employed in the UK went up from
762,000 to 1,647,000.

Albert Ellis, chief executive of the Harvey Nash Group, said: "Non-UK EU-born
workers are bringing much-needed skills and value to the UK and there is little
evidence that EU immigrants are having a negative impact on wages or
unemployment. In fact, immigrants are helping to create jobs. A broad and
diverse labour market fuels growth, as this report shows."

But a Home Office spokesperson said: "Free movement abuse is a genuine problem
and a growing number of EU member states now share our concerns. We have joined
forces with Germany, Austria and the Netherlands to demand the European
Commission takes action."

The spokesman told of a recurring problem in London with groups of EU nationals
who "arrive in the city, set up camps in public areas and beg and steal from
tourists".

Captions:

The 'benefit tourism' row is a blow to Cameron's EU plans.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                August 25, 2013

Power is fragmenting. But what is the true cost to democracy?

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1090 words


Power is leaching from the centre, even as the complexities of national and
international challenges multiply. It is the hallmark of our times. Whether
political or religious leaders, CEOs or five-star generals - all are more
constrained in what they can do.

This is a pattern across all societies. The digital age, globalisation and
higher levels of education have equipped more people to become insurgents or to
form single-issue pressure groups. It is a world where the opportunities to be a
Julian Assange, Beppe Grillo, Osama bin Laden, George Soros or Nigel Farage grow
by the day. Power is draining away from those in whom it is formally placed, but
with no obvious substitute in sight.

As Moises Naim writes in The End of Power, there are three interrelated dynamics
gnawing away at formal power structures - what he calls "the more revolution,
the mobility revolution and the mentality revolution". There are more literate,
educated people worldwide than ever before who refuse to be regimented and
controlled as they once were. They are mobile, migrating and exchanging
information to an unparalleled degree. Moreover, fewer will take anything for
granted: they expect their voice to be heard, whether on the streets of Cairo,
on social media in China or in anti-fracking protests in Sussex.

Naim is the first to concede that the dispersion of power is frequently a force
for good. One obvious benefit is that autocracy is on the wane. In 1989, Freedom
House reckoned that only 69 countries could be counted as democracies: today,
the number has reached 117.

It is also good that the chances of mass war on a 20th-century scale are
shrinking: in a world of declining power, war is won differently today. It is
the fast-moving insurgent who can capture hearts and minds or the terrorist
cyberhacker who ends up ahead. But as Naim wryly remarks, the decay of power
even undermines the insurgent terrorist groups themselves. He reports that 26 of
45 terrorist organisations dissolved, not from being beaten militarily, but from
internal strife and challenge. Al-Qaida's greatest weakness is its own
factionalisation, as will be the Taliban's.

It is this tendency to fragmentation and the chorus of often irrational voices
insisting that their demands be met that most concerns Naim. It may be easier to
establish a single-issue NGO, a religious movement or a political faction, but
that does not mean that the consequence is necessarily always beneficial.

There is now certainly hyper-competition from new religious groups, or from
blogs, tweets and websites trying to sway your opinion. But the consequences can
be perverse. The rise of charismatic religion may challenge centralised,
formerly powerful religious groupings that have lost their way, such as
Catholicism, under increasing siege from the rise of Pentecostal churches in
Africa and South America. But religious fundamentalism's grip on logic and
rationality is even more tenuous.

Similarly, millions of blogs and tweets have forced news consumers to fall back
on trusted, established sources, aiding media concentration rather than
diminishing it.

But the "more, mobility and mentality revolutions" have their most obvious
malign impact on politics in general and the political party in particular. Naim
observes that parties are the engine room of democracies: they gather a
constellation of interest groups around a common set of principles that offer a
compass for government. Everywhere, political parties are succumbing to the rise
of uncompromising single-issue pressure groups, lobbyists and funders, and the
corresponding decline of supporters who want common values expressed. It is now
not just parties but whole countries that are held to ransom by a faction or
interest group holding a simplified but impossible view of the world - Naim's
"terrible simplifiers".

One obvious example is the US Republican party, now in thrall to the Tea Party
movement, which sees no value in compromise, but instead worships at the altar
of an imagined US constitution that allegedly guarantees a nightwatchman state.
Another example is the emergence of the Pirate party in Sweden and Germany.
However, interestingly, Naim sees Britain as the laboratory that conclusively
proves his point. The rise of Scottish and Welsh nationalism and Ukip, along
with the hollowing out of both the Conservative and Labour parties, make the
country increasingly hard to govern .

This must, in part, explain the collapse in Labour and Conservative party
membership over the past 50 years and the consequent weakening of their capacity
to create formal and informal coalitions of a broad set of interest groups
around common values.

Ed Miliband's and Labour's failures predictably get the most attention from the
press - identikit pieces about his lack of forcefulness, clarity and too much
equivocation - as if a new leader could magically solve the problem, but with no
understanding of the much wider context in which any political leader now
operates.

The Tory party's problems, driven by similar forces, are arguably even more
acute. At any other time, David Cameron would be seen as a classic mainstream
Tory. Today, he is marginalised by as many as 200 backbenchers owing their
position to constituency association selectorates, some of no more than 100
activists, in thrall to "terrible simplicities" on tax, Europe, immigration and
welfare.

Any genuinely tough call - to put property taxation on 2013 rather than 1991
values, accept the need for immigration, cigarette packaging or even build the
HS2 train line - is made incomparably harder or is simply off-limits because of
the veto of a single-issue pressure group that a party is no longer strong
enough to take on.

It is the decay of power. The centre fragments and power devolves to myriad new
forces that often exercise their power with narrow obsessions in mind. Who now
speaks for the whole? Who keeps a macro view, mediating competing interests and
conflicts and has the courage to make decisions based on a strategic view of all
our interests, not just sectional ones?

Parties have to fight back -arguing better, crystallising policies better,
running primaries to select their candidates to widen their appeal - as does our
democracy. Representative government was a great invention. It now has to be
saved from the single-issue, monomaniac, simplifying, self-interested vandals -
a much more interesting position for Mr Miliband to take than a belated "me too"
conversion to a referendum on the EU.

Captions:

Illustration:

briancairns.com


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                August 25, 2013

Comment: Power is fragmenting. But what is the true cost to democracy?

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1084 words


Power is leaching from the centre, even as the complexities of national and
international challenges multiply. It is the hallmark of our times. Whether
political or religious leaders, CEOs or five-star generals - all are more
constrained in what they can do.

This is a pattern across all societies. The digital age, globalisation and
higher levels of education have equipped more people to become insurgents or to
form single-issue pressure groups. It is a world where the opportunities to be a
Julian Assange, Beppe Grillo, Osama bin Laden, George Soros or Nigel Farage grow
by the day. Power is draining away from those in whom it is formally placed, but
with no obvious substitute in sight.

As Moises Naim writes in The End of Power, there are three interrelated dynamics
gnawing away at formal power structures - what he calls "the more revolution,
the mobility revolution and the mentality revolution". There are more literate,
educated people worldwide than ever before who refuse to be regimented and
controlled as they once were. They are mobile, migrating and exchanging
information to an unparalleled degree. Moreover, fewer will take anything for
granted: they expect their voice to be heard, whether on the streets of Cairo,
on social media in China or in anti-fracking protests in Sussex.

Naim is the first to concede that the dispersion of power is frequently a force
for good. One obvious benefit is that autocracy is on the wane. In 1989, Freedom
House reckoned that only 69 countries could be counted as democracies: today,
the number has reached 117.

It is also good that the chances of mass war on a 20th-century scale are
shrinking: in a world of declining power, war is won differently today. It is
the fast-moving insurgent who can capture hearts and minds or the terrorist
cyberhacker who ends up ahead. But as Naim wryly remarks, the decay of power
even undermines the insurgent terrorist groups themselves. He reports that 26 of
45 terrorist organisations dissolved, not from being beaten militarily, but from
internal strife and challenge. Al-Qaida's greatest weakness is its own
factionalisation, as will be the Taliban's.

It is this tendency to fragmentation and the chorus of often irrational voices
insisting that their demands be met that most concerns Naim. It may be easier to
establish a single-issue NGO, a religious movement or a political faction, but
that does not mean that the consequence is necessarily always beneficial.

There is now certainly hyper-competition from new religious groups, or from
blogs, tweets and websites trying to sway your opinion. But the consequences can
be perverse. The rise of charismatic religion may challenge centralised,
formerly powerful religious groupings that have lost their way, such as
Catholicism, under increasing siege from the rise of Pentecostal churches in
Africa and South America. But religious fundamentalism's grip on logic and
rationality is even more tenuous.

Similarly, millions of blogs and tweets have forced news consumers to fall back
on trusted, established sources, aiding media concentration rather than
diminishing it.

But the "more, mobility and mentality revolutions" have their most obvious
malign impact on politics in general and the political party in particular. Naim
observes that parties are the engine room of democracies: they gather a
constellation of interest groups around a common set of principles that offer a
compass for government. Everywhere, political parties are succumbing to the rise
of uncompromising single-issue pressure groups, lobbyists and funders, and the
corresponding decline of supporters who want common values expressed. It is now
not just parties but whole countries that are held to ransom by a faction or
interest group holding a simplified but impossible view of the world - Naim's
"terrible simplifiers".

One obvious example is the US Republican party, now in thrall to the Tea Party
movement, which sees no value in compromise, but instead worships at the altar
of an imagined US constitution that allegedly guarantees a nightwatchman state.
Another example is the emergence of the Pirate party in Sweden and Germany.
However, interestingly, Naim sees Britain as the laboratory that conclusively
proves his point. The rise of Scottish and Welsh nationalism and Ukip, along
with the hollowing out of both the Conservative and Labour parties, make the
country increasingly hard to govern .

This must, in part, explain the collapse in Labour and Conservative party
membership over the past 50 years and the consequent weakening of their capacity
to create formal and informal coalitions of a broad set of interest groups
around common values.

Ed Miliband's and Labour's failures predictably get the most attention from the
press - identikit pieces about his lack of forcefulness, clarity and too much
equivocation - as if a new leader could magically solve the problem, but with no
understanding of the much wider context in which any political leader now
operates.

The Tory party's problems, driven by similar forces, are arguably even more
acute. At any other time, David Cameron would be seen as a classic mainstream
Tory. Today, he is marginalised by as many as 200 backbenchers owing their
position to constituency association selectorates, some of no more than 100
activists, in thrall to "terrible simplicities" on tax, Europe, immigration and
welfare.

Any genuinely tough call - to put property taxation on 2013 rather than 1991
values, accept the need for immigration, cigarette packaging or even build the
HS2 train line - is made incomparably harder or is simply off-limits because of
the veto of a single-issue pressure group that a party is no longer strong
enough to take on.

It is the decay of power. The centre fragments and power devolves to myriad new
forces that often exercise their power with narrow obsessions in mind. Who now
speaks for the whole? Who keeps a macro view, mediating competing interests and
conflicts and has the courage to make decisions based on a strategic view of all
our interests, not just sectional ones?

Parties have to fight back -arguing better, crystallising policies better,
running primaries to select their candidates to widen their appeal - as does our
democracy. Representative government was a great invention. It now has to be
saved from the single-issue, monomaniac, simplifying, self-interested vandals -
a much more interesting position for Mr Miliband to take than a belated "me too"
conversion to a referendum on the EU.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 August 4, 2013

No pressure for working peer

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 238 words


We're invited to swell with moral outrage because Danny Finkelstein, associate
editor of the Times, has been made a Conservative working peer, Lord Finkelstein
of Dutiful Policy Propagation. Sorry, no can do.

The Tories patrol the frontiers of independent journalism rather laxly. They
were happy to see a former information minister, Bill Deedes, become editor of
the Telegraph and write speeches for Mrs T. They were happy to see a former
research department boss, Danny, become chief Times leader writer, head of a
thinktank and pen ministerial speeches. They were happy to see the chief of
their Conservative Home website, Tim Montgomerie, take over as Times comment
head.

And presumably they'll be happy to see Lord Finkelstein rather less in editorial
evidence because he's busy in the upper house. If they were all trade union
bosses, it would be a scandal. But hey - these are all good chaps.

How does a battered, bedraggled Bun refurbish its image under new editor David
Dinsmore? By wrapping itself in four pages of confected tapestry and policy
nuggets: "It is is not a given that the Sun would want out [of the EU in a
referendum]"; "We believe in migrants who . . . graft, pay their way and enrich
the country". But really it was the tapestry of green fields, easyJets, Mr Bean
and Stonehenge that won the day. Dinsmore does Danny Boyle's Olympic opening.
With Rupert Murdoch rather than HM parachuting to the rescue.


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 August 4, 2013

PRESS AND BROADCASTING: No pressure for working peer

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 238 words


We're invited to swell with moral outrage because Danny Finkelstein, associate
editor of the Times, has been made a Conservative working peer, Lord Finkelstein
of Dutiful Policy Propagation. Sorry, no can do.

The Tories patrol the frontiers of independent journalism rather laxly. They
were happy to see a former information minister, Bill Deedes, become editor of
the Telegraph and write speeches for Mrs T. They were happy to see a former
research department boss, Danny, become chief Times leader writer, head of a
thinktank and pen ministerial speeches. They were happy to see the chief of
their Conservative Home website, Tim Montgomerie, take over as Times comment
head.

And presumably they'll be happy to see Lord Finkelstein rather less in editorial
evidence because he's busy in the upper house. If they were all trade union
bosses, it would be a scandal. But hey - these are all good chaps.

How does a battered, bedraggled Bun refurbish its image under new editor David
Dinsmore? By wrapping itself in four pages of confected tapestry and policy
nuggets: "It is is not a given that the Sun would want out [of the EU in a
referendum]"; "We believe in migrants who . . . graft, pay their way and enrich
the country". But really it was the tapestry of green fields, easyJets, Mr Bean
and Stonehenge that won the day. Dinsmore does Danny Boyle's Olympic opening.
With Rupert Murdoch rather than HM parachuting to the rescue.


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 30, 2013

Now Hurd takes on the Tory Eurosceptics ahead of crucial vote on EU referendum:
WHAT TORY GRANDEES SAY ON EU: Conservative peer tells Daniel Boffey Britons will
vote to stay in Europe - and predicts that the UK will consider joining euro
within a decade

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey Policy Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1324 words


Lord Hurd, the former foreign secretary, has become the latest Tory grandee to
warn against his party's growing Eurosceptic tendencies. In a wide-ranging
interview with the Observer, the peer attacked the views of Michael Gove, a
Eurosceptic cabinet minister, as "backward-looking", predicted that Britain will
consider joining the euro within the decade, and said he was opposed in
principle to holding a referendum on the UK's relationship with the European
Union while "reluctantly" accepting it was now inevitable.

Hurd also called on ministers to start making the case for continued membership
of the EU, describing the recent public announcement by Gove, the education
secretary, that he would vote to leave if there were an in-out referendum today
as unhelpful.

The former Tory leadership candidate - he came third behind John Major and
Michael Heseltine in 1990 - insisted that Britain will "come to its senses" and
vote to stay in the EU in a referendum. But to achieve reforms that will make
membership more attractive, ministers need to ensure that their views cannot be
construed by potential European allies as "Britain beefing again".

In a major speech at the Bloomberg headquarters in January, David Cameron
promised an in-out referendum by 2017, when he will campaign for retained
membership on the proviso that he can secure a new type of relationship with the
EU.

Hurd, 83, whose son, Nick, is minister for civil society, said: "I think if you
came here in 10 years I would be dead, but you would be sitting in a country
which was in the EU and was thinking again about the euro. I am not saying that
it would join, because I think the arguments against will always be quite
strong, but was not actually ruling it out in the way people do now because the
euro will have survived and its latent strengths will begin to appear."

Hurd added: "I think there is a struggle going on inside the EU between those
who still hanker after the original vision of ever closer unity and those who
say there is a perfectly good line drawn short of that." Asked about Gove's
recent comments, he said: "I think that is backward-looking. I don't think that
is helpful."

Hurd is just the latest Tory grandee to wade into the row over Britain's future
relationship with Europe. Last month the former chancellor Lord Howe wrote in
the Observer that the prime minister was running scared of his backbenchers and
had allowed Euroscepticism to "infect the soul of the party".

While Hurd distances himself from Howe's scathing assessment of the prime
minister, his views on Europe do stand in stark contrast to many within his
party today. Twenty years ago, Norris McWhirter, founder of the Guinness Book of
Records, attempted to have Hurd prosecuted for treason after he signed the
Maastricht treaty in his capacity as Major's foreign secretary. Now Hurd, along
with a coterie of other one-nation Tories, Ken Clarke and Heseltine included, is
regarded with ill-disguised contempt by hardline Eurosceptics.

That will be the view of a significant number of the Tory MPs voting this Friday
on a private member's bill, backed by Cameron, to commit to a referendum by
2017. But Hurd, who now moves around his modest London home with a stately,
thoughtful caution to match what has always been his approach to politics,
dismisses the view that he has been consistently wrong about the EU. "Life is
too complicated to deal with in those kinds of ways," he said.

The former diplomat, who seamlessly moved into politics in the mid-1970s to
become a big beast in both the Thatcher and Major governments, does not regard
himself as a Europhile but a realist. In response to Nigel Lawson, the former
chancellor, who recently said he would vote to leave the EU as it cannot change,
Hurd said: "Nigel is a pessimist. I am an optimist."

Hurd further said he was generally supportive of Cameron's position on Europe,
despite the "twists and turns in the road", and did not accept that the prime
minister had turned an internal party crisis into a national one, as posited by
Howe.

Europe is at a pivotal moment, Hurd said, and Britain can still play a crucial
role in guiding it towards what has always been his view of how the EU should
operate. He describes the position he supports as "subsidiarity", an originally
catholic doctrine that dictates that political decisions should be made at the
most local level possible: "It is a perfectly good doctrine, but no one has run
with it."

The Tory peer said he believed other nation states were now coming round to his
way of thinking. He detects in the Dutch a desire to repatriate powers. He said
he also saw it in France and even in Germany, but that it needs Britain to push
it along, to nurture those who are like-minded and not to allow their point of
view to be sidelined.

Hurd, Cameron's predecessor as MP for Witney - previously Mid Oxfordshire - is
known to offer advice to the prime minister. He warned him to lance the boil of
his Eton education early and not to apologise for it. Hurd, who also went to
Eton, said his campaign for the leadership of the Tory party following the fall
of Margaret Thatcher was derailed by his attempts to prove that he wasn't "a
toff".

"I should have said I am standing for leadership of the Tory party and not for
some demented Marxist outfit," he said ruefully. "I kerfuffled about. I produced
all kinds of details, all of which were true, about my father being a tenant
farmer and so on, but it simply wasn't credible, so people didn't believe it and
didn't vote for me."

But he said he only reluctantly supported Cameron's decision to go for a
referendum on Europe. Hurd had balked at the idea when Major wanted one over
Maastricht and is against it in principle today because he says it undermines
the authority of parliament. However, he sees it as inevitable.

Hurd said his concern now is whether there is sufficient time before 2017 for
the trend he detects in Europe to come to fruition, deliver the reforms Cameron
needs in order to offer Britain a different sort of EU in a future referendum,
and keep the UK where Hurd believes it belongs. "That's the big question and I
don't know the answer to that," he said. "We, for our own reasons, are in a
hurry to get on with it, whereas in other countries it is a slower motion."

Hurd, who has just published a book on the 19th-century prime minister Benjamin
Disraeli, said his position was borne from his understanding of Britain's
vocation. Disraeli believed nations could be glorious, and Britain should push
itself to be so. Hurd said he equally felt that the country's future was not to
be the equivalent of Sweden or Norway, benefiting from the single market but
absent from the top table leading the continent.

"For me it is a political argument," he said. "And that is the basis on which
Margaret Thatcher fought that campaign [to stay in the common market] all those
years ago. She believed that Europe needed increasingly to work together in
order to pull its weight in the world. What is the position of William Hague
going to be as British foreign secretary, outside the EU? OK, we will be like
Norway, we will be like Sweden; that may well be right, but is that really our
destiny, is that what we want to be? We have got a different history, we have
got a different background, a different contribution to make."

Captions:

LORD HOWE

'Leaving would be a tragic expression of our shrinking influence and the
humbling of our ambitions to remain a serious political or economic player'

LORD LAWSON

'We are becoming increasingly marginalised, as we are doomed to being
consistently outvoted by the eurozone bloc. The case for exit is clear'

Lord Hurd has called on ministers to make the case for continued EU membership
and describes Michael Gove's position as unhelpful.

Geraint Lewis/Rex

LORD TEBBIT

'We could survive, and survive rather well, outside the EU. We should come out
of any structure which remotely resembles what there is now'


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 30, 2013

Now Hurd takes on the Tory Eurosceptics ahead of crucial vote on EU referendum:
WHAT TORY GRANDEES SAY ON EU: Conservative peer tells Daniel Boffey Britons will
vote to stay in Europe - and predicts that the UK will consider joining euro
within a decade

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey Policy Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1316 words


Lord Hurd, the former foreign secretary, has become the latest Tory grandee to
warn against his party's growing Eurosceptic tendencies. In a wide-ranging
interview with the Observer, the peer attacked the views of Michael Gove, a
Eurosceptic cabinet minister, as "backward-looking", predicted that Britain will
consider joining the euro within the decade, and said he was opposed in
principle to holding a referendum on the UK's relationship with the European
Union while "reluctantly" accepting it was now inevitable.

Hurd also called on ministers to start making the case for continued membership
of the EU, describing the recent public announcement by Gove, the education
secretary, that he would vote to leave if there were an in-out referendum today
as unhelpful.

The former Tory leadership candidate - he came third behind John Major and
Michael Heseltine in 1990 - insisted that Britain will "come to its senses" and
vote to stay in the EU in a referendum. But to achieve reforms that will make
membership more attractive, ministers need to ensure that their views cannot be
construed by potential European allies as "Britain beefing again".

In a major speech at the Bloomberg headquarters in January, David Cameron
promised an in-out referendum by 2017, when he will campaign for retained
membership on the proviso that he can secure a new type of relationship with the
EU.

Hurd, 83, whose son, Nick, is minister for civil society, said: "I think if you
came here in 10 years I would be dead, but you would be sitting in a country
which was in the EU and was thinking again about the euro. I am not saying that
it would join, because I think the arguments against will always be quite
strong, but was not actually ruling it out in the way people do now because the
euro will have survived and its latent strengths will begin to appear."

Hurd added: "I think there is a struggle going on inside the EU between those
who still hanker after the original vision of ever closer unity and those who
say there is a perfectly good line drawn short of that." Asked about Gove's
recent comments, he said: "I think that is backward-looking. I don't think that
is helpful."

Hurd is just the latest Tory grandee to wade into the row over Britain's future
relationship with Europe. Last month the former chancellor Lord Howe wrote in
the Observer that the prime minister was running scared of his backbenchers and
had allowed Euroscepticism to "infect the soul of the party".

While Hurd distances himself from Howe's scathing assessment of the prime
minister, his views on Europe do stand in stark contrast to many within his
party today. Twenty years ago, Norris McWhirter, founder of the Guinness Book of
Records, attempted to have Hurd prosecuted for treason after he signed the
Maastricht treaty in his capacity as Major's foreign secretary. Now Hurd, along
with a coterie of other one-nation Tories, Ken Clarke and Heseltine included, is
regarded with ill-disguised contempt by hardline Eurosceptics.

That will be the view of a significant number of the Tory MPs voting this Friday
on a private member's bill, backed by Cameron, to commit to a referendum by
2017. But Hurd, who now moves around his modest London home with a stately,
thoughtful caution to match what has always been his approach to politics,
dismisses the view that he has been consistently wrong about the EU. "Life is
too complicated to deal with in those kinds of ways," he said.

The former diplomat, who seamlessly moved into politics in the mid-1970s to
become a big beast in both the Thatcher and Major governments, does not regard
himself as a Europhile but a realist. In response to Nigel Lawson, the former
chancellor, who recently said he would vote to leave the EU as it cannot change,
Hurd said: "Nigel is a pessimist. I am an optimist."

Hurd further said he was generally supportive of Cameron's position on Europe,
despite the "twists and turns in the road", and did not accept that the prime
minister had turned an internal party crisis into a national one, as posited by
Howe.

Europe is at a pivotal moment, Hurd said, and Britain can still play a crucial
role in guiding it towards what has always been his view of how the EU should
operate. He describes the position he supports as "subsidiarity", an originally
catholic doctrine that dictates that political decisions should be made at the
most local level possible: "It is a perfectly good doctrine, but no one has run
with it."

The Tory peer said he believed other nation states were now coming round to his
way of thinking. He detects in the Dutch a desire to repatriate powers. He said
he also saw it in France and even in Germany, but that it needs Britain to push
it along, to nurture those who are like-minded and not to allow their point of
view to be sidelined.

Hurd, Cameron's predecessor as MP for Witney - previously Mid Oxfordshire - is
known to offer advice to the prime minister. He warned him to lance the boil of
his Eton education early and not to apologise for it. Hurd, who also went to
Eton, said his campaign for the leadership of the Tory party following the fall
of Margaret Thatcher was derailed by his attempts to prove that he wasn't "a
toff".

"I should have said I am standing for leadership of the Tory party and not for
some demented Marxist outfit," he said ruefully. "I kerfuffled about. I produced
all kinds of details, all of which were true, about my father being a tenant
farmer and so on, but it simply wasn't credible, so people didn't believe it and
didn't vote for me."

But he said he only reluctantly supported Cameron's decision to go for a
referendum on Europe. Hurd had balked at the idea when Major wanted one over
Maastricht and is against it in principle today because he says it undermines
the authority of parliament. However, he sees it as inevitable.

Hurd said his concern now is whether there is sufficient time before 2017 for
the trend he detects in Europe to come to fruition, deliver the reforms Cameron
needs in order to offer Britain a different sort of EU in a future referendum,
and keep the UK where Hurd believes it belongs. "That's the big question and I
don't know the answer to that," he said. "We, for our own reasons, are in a
hurry to get on with it, whereas in other countries it is a slower motion."

Hurd, who has just published a book on the 19th-century prime minister Benjamin
Disraeli, said his position was borne from his understanding of Britain's
vocation. Disraeli believed nations could be glorious, and Britain should push
itself to be so. Hurd said he equally felt that the country's future was not to
be the equivalent of Sweden or Norway, benefiting from the single market but
absent from the top table leading the continent.

"For me it is a political argument," he said. "And that is the basis on which
Margaret Thatcher fought that campaign [to stay in the common market] all those
years ago. She believed that Europe needed increasingly to work together in
order to pull its weight in the world. What is the position of William Hague
going to be as British foreign secretary, outside the EU? OK, we will be like
Norway, we will be like Sweden; that may well be right, but is that really our
destiny, is that what we want to be? We have got a different history, we have
got a different background, a different contribution to make."

Captions:

LORD HOWE

'Leaving would be a tragic expression of our shrinking influence and the
humbling of our ambitions to remain a serious political or economic player'

LORD LAWSON

'We are becoming increasingly marginalised, as we are doomed to being
consistently outvoted by the eurozone bloc. The case for exit is clear'

LORD TEBBIT

'We could survive, and survive rather well, outside the EU. We should come out
of any structure which remotely resembles what there is now'

Lord Hurd has called on ministers to make the case for continued EU membership.

Geraint Lewis/Rex


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 23, 2013

Does the Tory party actually want to win the next election?: An 'alternative
Queen's speech' by rightwingers illustrates David Cameron's enduring problems
with his MPs

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1503 words


Is the Conservative MP Peter Bone secretly in the pay of Nick Clegg? Does he
take Lib Dem gold? It is true that no Tory backbencher has been more hostile to
coalition than the MP for Wellingborough. And none can compete with him when it
comes to being rude about the deputy prime minister, often to his face. But you
could take that as further grounds to suspect that he might be a yellow agent.
Being nasty about Mr Clegg is how you would maintain your cover if you were a
covert operative implanted in the Tory parliamentary party with a brief to cause
maximum mischief for David Cameron to the benefit of the Lib Dems.

I'm prompted to wonder about Mr Bone because he is one of the leaders of a gang
of Tory MPs who have just mocked the prime minister by launching an "alternative
Queen's speech" which, they say, would transform the electoral fortunes of the
Conservative party. Many of their 42 proposed bills are from the traditional
menu of the right of the Tory party: the restoration of national service, exit
from the European Union, the privatisation of the BBC and the reintroduction of
the death penalty. They missed a trick, I thought, by not also calling for the
resumption of birching in schools, the decriminalisation of duelling and
bear-baiting and the relaxation of prohibitions against child chimney sweeps.
They throw in a few suggestions that command very widespread support within
their party, such as tax breaks to reward marriage, though presumably not gay
marriage since another bill calls for a referendum to abolish it.

There are even some quite sensible ideas in the mix, such as putting a cap on
the size of the House of Lords. But the eye is most drawn, which was surely
their intention, to their most provocatively look-at-me suggestions, which
include a bill to ban the burqa in public places and another to rename the late
August bank holiday as "Margaret Thatcher Day".

According to Mr Bone: "This is a serious attempt to deliver policies that the
British public really want. There are ideas here that could form the basis of a
future Conservative manifesto."

What japes! Your first instinct may be to laugh at this as a harmless frolic by
some eccentric attention-seekers inhabiting the fruitcake-flavoured fringes of
the Tory party. That is how David Cameron's people would like you to react. They
dismiss it with a snort and a shrug.

The truth is, though, that this sort of self-indulgent troublemaking among
Conservative MPs drives Downing Street to despair. The Tory whips are also said
to be angry, but seem powerless to do anything about it. The annoyance it causes
is aggravated because Number 10 had been waxing optimistic that the mood of its
backbenchers had become a little calmer, a little saner and a little bit more
disciplined in recent weeks. The self-immolating frenzy over a EU referendum
that saw a record rebellion against the government was receding into the past.
So was all the turbulence around gay marriage. The prime minister's people
talked hopefully about "clearing the battlefield".

Mr Cameron has been putting a lot of time in with his MPs to try to build
bridges with the backbenchers. He has also been making gestures of
reconciliation to the right, such as throwing a knighthood to Edward Leigh and
allowing the spread of speculation that there will be a return to cabinet rank
for Liam Fox in the next reshuffle. The signs of revival in the economy have
also engendered optimism at the top of the party that Tory MPs will become more
focused on the next general election and more hopeful about winning it.

The Bone-head manifesto illustrates that a significant element remain as
unreconciled as ever to their leader, as determined as ever to undermine him and
heedless of the potential damage they inflict on their party. The Bone-heads got
a particularly warm reception from the Lib Dems who have been gleefully
publicising the loopiest and most extreme ideas as examples of what a Tory
majority government would get up to unconstrained by the moderating presence of
the Lib Dems.

The authors of the "alternative Queen's speech" are not actually representative
of the Conservative party. But then the Militant Tendency did not have to be
representative of the whole of the Labour party in the 1980s to do it great
damage. And the Bone-heads are not wholly unrepresentative of their party
either. Banning burqas, bringing back the rope and Thatcher Day would find much
support among Tory activists. These MPs must know that presenting a rival
Queen's speech to the government's official programme is a disruptive and
divisive act, but they just don't care. They must anticipate how this will be
used by opponents, but they don't care about that either. They are in love with
their capacity to cause mayhem. To ensure that their prospectus made it on to
the parliamentary timetable, members of the group had to stage a four-day squat
in a room in the Public Bill Office, a hot, square, rather airless box right
under Big Ben.

In order to keep their place in the queue, one of their number, the MP for
Kettering, Philip Holobone - there seem to be rather too many men called bone in
this story - spent four nights on a camp bed. The MP for Bury North, David
Nuttall - I guess such a tale just had to involve an MP called Nut - also took a
turn.

The dedication of these unreconstructed rightwingers comes from intense passion.
They hate coalition. They despise David Cameron. They don't even seem to like
being in office. They behave as if they don't want to win the next election and
would certainly rather be in opposition after 2015 than in another power-share
with the Lib Dems. These irreconcilables are the most vivid manifestation of a
malady that has a grip on quite a lot of the Conservative party. Rafael Behr of
the New Statesman has a witty coinage for their pathology. He calls it
"defeatophilia": a sadomasochistic impulse to want to lose so that they can
ditch David Cameron, conduct an ideological purge and be born anew as a party of
the purist right.

One can make the obvious point to these people that the Conservative party tried
running on pretty rightwing manifestos in 2001 and 2005 and it didn't work out
well for them either time. Except that they do not regard the campaigns run by
William Hague and Michael Howard as right wing at all. Just as the hard left in
the 1980s blamed their party's serial defeats on its failure to offer "real
socialism", these Tory Bennites truly believe that the fundamental problem with
their party is that it has never been right wing enough. They have been given
space to cause grief for Mr Cameron in part because he has too often indulged
them. They are also playing into a wider debate, which reaches right to the top
of the Conservative party, about its direction of travel towards the next
election. There is now something of a consensus among the prime minister's
allies that the last Tory election campaign was an unfocused muddle, without a
cohesive theme, which tried but failed to conceal its contradictions behind the
vacuous slogan: "An Invitation to Join the Government of Britain".

Some senior Tories still place most of the blame for their failure to win an
outright majority on a tactical mistake: letting Mr Clegg into the televised
leaders' debates, which gifted him the opportunity to present himself as an
alternative. A majority of senior Tories now think that there was a deeper,
strategic flaw in the Conservative campaign. It was never clear exactly what
they were offering because it was never entirely resolved how Mr Cameron wanted
to define himself. Was he running as a moderate and a moderniser who had made
the Tory party fit to govern again? Or was he offering the electorate a more
unabashed leader of the right? Sometimes he was one thing; sometimes he was
another.

That confusion remains to this day. So do the same arguments within his party
about the best way to secure power. There are those around him who press for the
next election campaign to be tightly focused on traditional Tory issues such as
welfare, immigration and Europe with a dash of tax cuts if they are at all
affordable. Lynton Crosby, the Australian election strategist who is fond of
talking about "removing the barnacles from the boat", is a strong voice urging
the prime minister to head in that direction. In the camp can be found those
Tories who are most possessed by the threat to their right flank from Ukip.

Others around Mr Cameron argue that the more important competition is with the
Lib Dems and Labour for middle-ground voters. These Tories contend that they can
give up any hope of securing a parliamentary majority if they don't run a
broader and more rounded campaign that emphasises those things, such as health
and education, that tend to matter most to centrist voters. When I recently
asked a senior Tory which way the prime minister would eventually jump, he
replied: "I don't know."

So long as he doesn't know, the Bone-heads will continue to fill the vacuum with
their mischief.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 23, 2013

COMMENT: Does the Tory party actually want to win the next election?: An
'alternative Queen's speech' by rightwingers illustrates David Cameron's
enduring problems with his MPs

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1503 words


Is the Conservative MP Peter Bone secretly in the pay of Nick Clegg? Does he
take Lib Dem gold? It is true that no Tory backbencher has been more hostile to
coalition than the MP for Wellingborough. And none can compete with him when it
comes to being rude about the deputy prime minister, often to his face. But you
could take that as further grounds to suspect that he might be a yellow agent.
Being nasty about Mr Clegg is how you would maintain your cover if you were a
covert operative implanted in the Tory parliamentary party with a brief to cause
maximum mischief for David Cameron to the benefit of the Lib Dems.

I'm prompted to wonder about Mr Bone because he is one of the leaders of a gang
of Tory MPs who have just mocked the prime minister by launching an "alternative
Queen's speech" which, they say, would transform the electoral fortunes of the
Conservative party. Many of their 42 proposed bills are from the traditional
menu of the right of the Tory party: the restoration of national service, exit
from the European Union, the privatisation of the BBC and the reintroduction of
the death penalty. They missed a trick, I thought, by not also calling for the
resumption of birching in schools, the decriminalisation of duelling and
bear-baiting and the relaxation of prohibitions against child chimney sweeps.
They throw in a few suggestions that command very widespread support within
their party, such as tax breaks to reward marriage, though presumably not gay
marriage since another bill calls for a referendum to abolish it.

There are even some quite sensible ideas in the mix, such as putting a cap on
the size of the House of Lords. But the eye is most drawn, which was surely
their intention, to their most provocatively look-at-me suggestions, which
include a bill to ban the burqa in public places and another to rename the late
August bank holiday as "Margaret Thatcher Day".

According to Mr Bone: "This is a serious attempt to deliver policies that the
British public really want. There are ideas here that could form the basis of a
future Conservative manifesto."

What japes! Your first instinct may be to laugh at this as a harmless frolic by
some eccentric attention-seekers inhabiting the fruitcake-flavoured fringes of
the Tory party. That is how David Cameron's people would like you to react. They
dismiss it with a snort and a shrug.

The truth is, though, that this sort of self-indulgent troublemaking among
Conservative MPs drives Downing Street to despair. The Tory whips are also said
to be angry, but seem powerless to do anything about it. The annoyance it causes
is aggravated because Number 10 had been waxing optimistic that the mood of its
backbenchers had become a little calmer, a little saner and a little bit more
disciplined in recent weeks. The self-immolating frenzy over a EU referendum
that saw a record rebellion against the government was receding into the past.
So was all the turbulence around gay marriage. The prime minister's people
talked hopefully about "clearing the battlefield".

Mr Cameron has been putting a lot of time in with his MPs to try to build
bridges with the backbenchers. He has also been making gestures of
reconciliation to the right, such as throwing a knighthood to Edward Leigh and
allowing the spread of speculation that there will be a return to cabinet rank
for Liam Fox in the next reshuffle. The signs of revival in the economy have
also engendered optimism at the top of the party that Tory MPs will become more
focused on the next general election and more hopeful about winning it.

The Bone-head manifesto illustrates that a significant element remain as
unreconciled as ever to their leader, as determined as ever to undermine him and
heedless of the potential damage they inflict on their party. The Bone-heads got
a particularly warm reception from the Lib Dems who have been gleefully
publicising the loopiest and most extreme ideas as examples of what a Tory
majority government would get up to unconstrained by the moderating presence of
the Lib Dems.

The authors of the "alternative Queen's speech" are not actually representative
of the Conservative party. But then the Militant Tendency did not have to be
representative of the whole of the Labour party in the 1980s to do it great
damage. And the Bone-heads are not wholly unrepresentative of their party
either. Banning burqas, bringing back the rope and Thatcher Day would find much
support among Tory activists. These MPs must know that presenting a rival
Queen's speech to the government's official programme is a disruptive and
divisive act, but they just don't care. They must anticipate how this will be
used by opponents, but they don't care about that either. They are in love with
their capacity to cause mayhem. To ensure that their prospectus made it on to
the parliamentary timetable, members of the group had to stage a four-day squat
in a room in the Public Bill Office, a hot, square, rather airless box right
under Big Ben.

In order to keep their place in the queue, one of their number, the MP for
Kettering, Philip Holobone - there seem to be rather too many men called bone in
this story - spent four nights on a camp bed. The MP for Bury North, David
Nuttall - I guess such a tale just had to involve an MP called Nut - also took a
turn.

The dedication of these unreconstructed rightwingers comes from intense passion.
They hate coalition. They despise David Cameron. They don't even seem to like
being in office. They behave as if they don't want to win the next election and
would certainly rather be in opposition after 2015 than in another power-share
with the Lib Dems. These irreconcilables are the most vivid manifestation of a
malady that has a grip on quite a lot of the Conservative party. Rafael Behr of
the New Statesman has a witty coinage for their pathology. He calls it
"defeatophilia": a sadomasochistic impulse to want to lose so that they can
ditch David Cameron, conduct an ideological purge and be born anew as a party of
the purist right.

One can make the obvious point to these people that the Conservative party tried
running on pretty rightwing manifestos in 2001 and 2005 and it didn't work out
well for them either time. Except that they do not regard the campaigns run by
William Hague and Michael Howard as right wing at all. Just as the hard left in
the 1980s blamed their party's serial defeats on its failure to offer "real
socialism", these Tory Bennites truly believe that the fundamental problem with
their party is that it has never been right wing enough. They have been given
space to cause grief for Mr Cameron in part because he has too often indulged
them. They are also playing into a wider debate, which reaches right to the top
of the Conservative party, about its direction of travel towards the next
election. There is now something of a consensus among the prime minister's
allies that the last Tory election campaign was an unfocused muddle, without a
cohesive theme, which tried but failed to conceal its contradictions behind the
vacuous slogan: "An Invitation to Join the Government of Britain".

Some senior Tories still place most of the blame for their failure to win an
outright majority on a tactical mistake: letting Mr Clegg into the televised
leaders' debates, which gifted him the opportunity to present himself as an
alternative. A majority of senior Tories now think that there was a deeper,
strategic flaw in the Conservative campaign. It was never clear exactly what
they were offering because it was never entirely resolved how Mr Cameron wanted
to define himself. Was he running as a moderate and a moderniser who had made
the Tory party fit to govern again? Or was he offering the electorate a more
unabashed leader of the right? Sometimes he was one thing; sometimes he was
another.

That confusion remains to this day. So do the same arguments within his party
about the best way to secure power. There are those around him who press for the
next election campaign to be tightly focused on traditional Tory issues such as
welfare, immigration and Europe with a dash of tax cuts if they are at all
affordable. Lynton Crosby, the Australian election strategist who is fond of
talking about "removing the barnacles from the boat", is a strong voice urging
the prime minister to head in that direction. In the camp can be found those
Tories who are most possessed by the threat to their right flank from Ukip.

Others around Mr Cameron argue that the more important competition is with the
Lib Dems and Labour for middle-ground voters. These Tories contend that they can
give up any hope of securing a parliamentary majority if they don't run a
broader and more rounded campaign that emphasises those things, such as health
and education, that tend to matter most to centrist voters. When I recently
asked a senior Tory which way the prime minister would eventually jump, he
replied: "I don't know."

So long as he doesn't know, the Bone-heads will continue to fill the vacuum with
their mischief.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  June 2, 2013

Comment: At last, a deal is done on fishing - proof the European project works

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1109 words


For years, campaigners have been fighting against industrial fishing in European
waters and last week, at long last, they had something to celebrate. Their
target has been the huge factory ships that hoover up everything in their wake,
discarding the dead fish they don't want - often half the catch - and returning
to port with their quotas met the most profitable way. The result has not just
been dwindling fish stocks - the entire marine ecosystem is under assault,
including the coastal fishing communities that depend on it for their
livelihood.

No one European country can make a difference by itself: fish do not respect
borders. In any case, the danger for any one country acting unilaterally to
husband fish stocks and ban the practice of discarding dead fish is that if
others do not follow suit it will be the sucker. It will have hurt its own
fishing interests just to benefit others. This is a problem that can only be
solved by European countries acting together.

Last Thursday at 3am, EU members states finally agreed the outlines of a tough
Common Fisheries Policy. First, there was a commitment for the first time to set
quotas - based on hard scientific advice - that aim to go beyond stabilising
fish stocks to achieving growth. Crucially, from 2015, boats will be forbidden
from discarding unwanted dead fish, starting with species such as mackerel that
live in the upper oceans, and extended to all fish types by 2020. Every country
will have to submit a detailed plan for how it intends to meet its quota, but
making its own decision about which types of fishing it will favour. But with
discards effectively banned - inevitably, under British pressure, boats will
still be allowed to discard 5% of their catch after 2020 - there will be an
inbuilt bias against industrial fishing. This is a major move to help stocks.

Battle-hardened campaigners could only blink in semi-disbelief. Hugh
Fearnley-Whittingstall, the leader of Fish Fight, who has signed up more than
860,000 supporters to work for tougher quotas and a ban on discards, hailed the
deal as a "tremendous achievement". Even Greenpeace managed a grudging
congratulation: "For all its loopholes and sluggish timelines the policy has the
potential to turn Europe's destructive and oversized fishing industry into a
sustainable, low-impact sector." The fishing industry acknowledged a corner had
been turned.

It was a great example of an increasingly democratic EU beginning to work rather
well. For the policy to become law, the European parliament will have to give
its assent - and on this question it is very radical. EU fisheries ministers,
managed cleverly by EU Commissioner Maria Damanaki, knew they had to come up
with something strong, or parliament's endorsement would be impossible. But
equally, the deal is only sellable domestically if governments accountable to
national parliaments and electorates work out exactly which parts of their
domestic fishing industry are going to shoulder the pain. Here is a policy that
is democratically legitimate at EU and national levels, respects national
sovereignty and solves a problem that no one country could solve itself.

However, this will be news to almost every reader of this column. No national
newspaper printed it. It did break at 3am, but apart from the FT there was not
even online coverage and no follow-up the following day. Intriguingly, even the
BBC's Today programme felt the story could be ignored; the juicy European news
of the day was a BBC scoop that the EU Commission is going to take Britain to
court over the government's alleged discriminatory withdrawal of welfare
benefits from EU nationals. It was a good story, but listeners might also have
been interested in hearing the fishing deal discussed - or even that it had
happened. After all, the news was only hours old. Fish Fight does have 860,000
supporters: the effective ending of discards was hardly marginal news.

But the story did not fit the narrative. The British view, hardwired into the
political and media class's DNA, is that the EU is a mess about to disintegrate
under the weight of its absurd, anti-democratic ambitions to become a
superstate, with its even more absurd single currency. It does nothing
worthwhile, harms all British interests and we must stay disengaged or, at best,
leave altogether. Every editor knows that no positive stories emanate from
Brussels, and even if they do, there are no penalties for ignoring them.

It is utterly disabling. The technical reason why Britain fought so hard to
continue to allow boats to discard 5% of their catch after 2020 is that
allegedly in British waters, shoals of fish are more intertwined than in other
waters, so catching fish that have to be discarded is more likely. Really? My
hunch is that without the concession officials and ministers were terrified of
Nigel Farage and Eurosceptic Tory MPs lining up with some disgruntled fishermen
to claim the big bad EU had undermined British "interests".

Certainly, that was why Britain last week blocked Italy from implementing a ban
on single-use plastic bags as discriminatory under EU law against British
plastic bag manufacturers. Now no EU country can adopt what is clearly a sane
environmental move - at one time supported by the prime minister - because of a
reflex terror of a complaint by "wealth-creating" business that EU regulation is
undermining British interests. (Both Wales and Northern Ireland have introduced
a plastic bag levy.)

Nor will anybody have juxtaposed the richly comic spectacle of the British
government prosecuting Italy for being discriminatory under EU law even as it
protests against the injustice of being called discriminatory itself over
welfare. Instead, there is synthetic outrage about Britain being singled out by
a mutton-headed and politically insensitive European Commission. Yet the entire
EU is based on the principle that there are common European interests, extending
from how we fish our seas to how we explore space, that are underpinned by the
notion that member states do not discriminate against each other. The rule of
European law is universal, as it should be in rule-of-law societies. The
Commission has no option but to uphold it.

This is a club worth staying in. It is much better for Britain's fishing
industry - along with every other industry - that we are in the EU as it makes
its rules. If the British are to make an informed choice about their destiny in
any future referendum, then at least they deserve to know the facts. Judging by
last week they will not be able to rely on their media for those or on their
terrified politicians.

Captions:

Illustration:

briancairns.com


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  June 2, 2013

National: Labour MPs in revolt over EU referendum

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 335 words


Ed Miliband is facing a rebellion by 20 of his MPs against his policy to rule
out a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

In a sign of growing unease with his leadership, a group of Miliband's
backbenchers have signed up to a new campaign, Labour for a Referendum, to be
launched this week. They want to force Miliband to do a U-turn on his refusal to
offer the British people an in-out referendum. Labour's policy is to only offer
a vote to the public if there is a significant treaty change that transfers
further sovereignty to the EU.

A number of Labour MPs are understood to be growing disillusioned with Miliband,
with a YouGov poll last week suggesting 50% see him as out of touch, dithering,
weak or unclear on what he stands for.

The Labour for a Referendum campaign is being bankrolled by Labour donor John
Mills, who last week caused a headache for Miliband by suggesting he is "policy
light". Mills declined to name the MPs who have signed up, but added that a
"number of people in senior position in the Labour party are fairly
sympathetic". The founder of TV shopping firm JML, who donated £ 1.65m in shares
to the party this year, Mills said he believed he would add to the 20 MPs
supporting him, although he insisted that he was loyal to Miliband as a leader.

He said: "We only started in March. I think we will be able to get the number
up. I think to have got this far as quickly as we have is really quite
encouraging. There are clearly a number of people in senior positions in the
party who are fairly sympathetic. They haven't signed up, but they are
sympathetic to what we are saying."

Mills said that there was an ongoing internal debate within the party.

He said: "People can change their minds, circumstances can change. I think there
is going to be a compelling argument for Labour strategists as we get into the
next election. If Labour is dead against having a referendum and the
Conservatives are dedicated to having one, this could switch quite a lot of
votes at the last minute."


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

Get out of Europe? I'd rather leave this slump behind instead

BYLINE: William Keegan

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 875 words


According to Greek mythology, Cerberus was the many-headed hound that stood at
the gates of Hades, the underworld. Feeding the hound of hell was a thankless
task. He always wanted more. Hence the expression "a sop to Cerberus", meaning a
futile gift of a morsel that only leaves the hound baying for more.

I am not suggesting for one moment that Ukip or the Tory party are dogs. But the
expression "a sop to Cerberus" - much favoured by my classics master in days
gone by - does keep coming to mind, with our beleaguered prime minister in the
increasingly frustrating position of delivering the sops.

Mythical history does not relate whether there are also pigeons at the gates of
Hades. But if there are, my old friend Lord Lawson has certainly thrown a cat
among them with his Ukip-style call for us to leave the European Union
altogether - he who himself lives a fair proportion of the year in la belle
France

Lawson likes the way of life in France. So do many of us, who seize every
opportunity to relish it - unlike, it seems from recent opinion polls, the
French themselves, who are not as content as we thought.

It was admiration for the standards of the French and other European health
systems that prompted New Labour to devote a fair proportion of the budget to
modernising our own NHS. Further back, envy of what was perceived as superior
economic performance was one of the main reasons why our nation applied to join
what was then the Common Market.

Whether they vote Conservative, Labour or otherwise, the British people are
fundamentally conservative. In the 1975 referendum they always seemed likely to
vote to stay in, rather than take a leap outside. And, whatever the opinion
polls show now, I suspect that if this new proposed referendum ever takes place,
there will once again be a vote for staying in. But what a lot of time would be
wasted meanwhile!

As older readers will know, I have always regarded the EU, for all its
irritations, as what the authors of 1066 and All That would have described as a
Good Thing. But the eurozone was a step too far, and it is to the credit of John
Major that we "opted out" and to the credit of Gordon Brown that Tony Blair's
pressure to join was resisted.

The ultimate irony was the spectacle last week of David Cameron, in his capacity
as this year's chairman of the G8, representing the EU in early discussions with
President Obama about a proposed free trade area with the US, while back home
his MPs and even ministers were calling for our complete withdrawal from the EU.

As the president reminded Cameron, it is in the UK's best interests to remain in
the EU. He could have added that membership of the EU and exemption from the
eurozone gives us the best combination.

Freedom from the constraints of the single currency has enabled us to secure a
devaluation that, according to the latest estimates from the Office for Budget
Responsibility, produced a gain in net trade (exports minus imports) equivalent
to 2% of GDP between the fourth quarter of 2007 and the fourth quarter of 2010.
Recent figures have not been so good, but have been distorted by the vagaries of
production of North Sea oil. The governor of the Bank of England, Sir Mervyn
King, pointed out last week that since 2007 and the devaluation, the trade
deficit (excluding North Sea oil) has averaged 1.5% of GDP compared with 3%
before.

Such exchange rate adjustments have not been available to the suffering southern
states of the eurozone vis-a-vis super-competitive Germany. Nor, for that
matter, have they been available to France. Moreover, the weaker eurozone
economies have been further debilitated by austerity programmes that derive
partly from the Teutonic belief that suffering does lesser economies good and
partly from the way the bond markets panicked until Mario Draghi, president of
the European Central Bank, promised to do "whatever it takes" to keep the show
on the road.

The bond markets have now woken up to the deficiencies of the austerity model.
The fundamental flaws of the way the policy operates in the eurozone are well
explained in the latest weekly comment from Russell Jones and John Llewellyn of
Llewellyn Consulting. Coming from analysts who, unusually for this country, have
been broadly friendly towards the eurozone project, their questioning of the
long-term sustainability of the eurozone, on account of the asymmetrical way the
rules operate, ought to be taken seriously in Berlin and Frankfurt.

What makes the British economic situation so frustrating is that we are not
subject to the deflationary bias of the eurozone: George Osborne and his pals
have simply imposed one of their own, inventing imaginary threats from the bond
markets.

The cuts in social security have been especially severe for the poorest in our
society. Yet, as the Child Poverty Action Group points out, the poorest spend a
larger proportion of their income than other groups, and the cuts have
multiplier effects that hardly encourage that elusive recovery. The cuts are not
only damaging in themselves: they are what Tim Nicholls of CPAG calls a "fiscal
hindrance" to economic recovery.

What a convenient diversion from the damage caused by the chancellor's economic
strategy all this nonsense about leaving the EU is.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

This is a new, farcical low and David Cameron is losing control: The former
foreign secretary and chancellor says Tory backbenchers' desire to get out of
Europe would leave Britain dangerously isolated. He calls on the Lib Dems and
Labour to stand strong if the prime minister cannot

BYLINE: Geoffrey Howe

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1324 words


Unfortunately, last week's events in the House of Commons have brought the
debate on Europe within the Conservative party to a new, almost farcical, low.
Having previously opposed the introduction of legislation in this parliament to
hold a referendum in the next one, the prime minister suddenly allowed a free
vote among backbenchers, with the government abstaining, on the extraordinary
basis that the party had no policy on the issue.

Then, once more than 100 backbenchers had voted for such a referendum, he
insisted that all Tory MPs, whatever their view, should from now on support the
proposal, on a three-line whip, whereas only the day before they could take any
position they chose. This saga looks more like the politics of the French Fourth
Republic than the serious practice of government and it is especially
disappointing and damaging on such an important issue - the place of Britain in
Europe and the world.

Sadly, by making it clear in January that he opposes the current terms of UK
membership of the EU, the prime minister has opened a Pandora's box politically
and seems to be losing control of his party in the process. The ratchet-effect
of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the Conservative leadership is in
effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone Ukip, having allowed
deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party. The risk now is
that, if it loses the next general election - a far from negligible possibility
- the Conservative party will move to a position of simply opposing Britain's
continued membership, with or without a referendum.

Archimedes said: "Give me a place on which to stand and lever long enough, and I
will move the world." British foreign policy should be about maximising and
exploiting the levers we possess - whether through Europe, the transatlantic
relationship or the Commonwealth - not breaking them or throwing them away.

In this context, I have yet to meet any significant western political figure
from beyond our shores who can understand why Britain would even contemplate
leaving the European Union, which is now a key point of leverage for this
country in the modern world.

In Washington, Tokyo, Beijing, New Delhi or Moscow, let alone in all other EU
national capitals, it seems obvious that the UK needs the union as the platform
and vehicle by which to influence events and policy in many spheres. Nowadays,
with the possible exception of Germany, a country such as Britain, boasting
about 1% of the world's population and 3% of the world's GDP, is unlikely to be
able to hold anything like the position of power to which we continue to aspire,
unless this is firmly anchored in a strong alliances and, ideally, a credible
regional framework. With the decline of Nato, the only such framework available,
unless we seek to join the United States, is basically the European Union.

The Americans have always wanted Britain to play a leadership role in a united
Europe - from the early 1950s through to today. It has been a constant of US
foreign policy that any "special relationship" is not based on nostalgia or some
mystical solidarity among the "English-speaking peoples", but on a realpolitik
assessment of our capacity to help shape our continent in a modern,
outward-looking direction.

Half a century ago, in making Britain's first application, Harold Macmillan
understood this very well. He wrote: "If we remain outside the European
Community, it seems to me inevitable that the realities of power would compel
our American friends to attach increasing weight to the views and interests of
the six in Europe, with others who may join them, and to pay less attention to
our own. We would find the United States and the community concerting policy
together on major issues, with much less incentive than now to secure our
agreement or even consult our opinion. To lose influence both in Europe and
Washington, as this must mean, would seriously undermine our international
position and hence, one must add, our usefulness to the Commonwealth."

Every one of Macmillan's words remains as true and powerful today as in 1962 -
except that, first, the six are now the 27; and second, Britain is a much lesser
force in world affairs, making the problem he describes more acute.

Last week, President Obama called Britain's membership an "expression of the
UK's influence and role in the world". Leaving the union would, by contrast, in
my view, be a tragic expression of our shrinking influence and role in the world
- and the humbling of our ambitions, already sorely tested by the current
crisis, to remain a serious political or economic player on the global stage.

Earlier this year, Obama made it clear that America wants "a strong United
Kingdom in a strong European Union", not a weak or isolated UK outside a
broken-backed EU. Ironically, his words echoed the "Strong Britain in a Strong
Europe" manifesto slogan on which the Conservatives fought the 1994 European
elections. Almost two decades later, the Conservative party now needs a US
president to tell it what it once had the confidence to proclaim as common sense
itself.

Another irony was that the prime minister's main business in Washington was to
discuss the launch of negotiations for an EU-US free-trade agreement and single
market, officially known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership.
It is the EU, not the member states individually, which will negotiate TTIP. If
successful, it will create the largest single open economic area in the world,
even bigger than Europe's existing single market, and help us set global
standards in a world where neither Europe nor even America has that leverage on
its own. Where would the UK fit into this, as an independent island, stranded
between markets of 450 million and 300 million apiece? Outside the EU, we would
have to accept the terms of whatever deal Washington and Brussels decide, with
us enjoying no meaningful influence on either side.

This pattern would be repeated across the board internationally. Outside the EU,
Britain would have to renegotiate hundreds of existing EU trade, investment and
aid deals with countries all around. I find it difficult to imagine the
Japanese, South Koreans or Brazilians queuing up to give us a better deal than
26 (soon 27) other European countries, including Germany, can extract as a bloc.

Creating and completing the European single market of 500 million consumers - a
major British objective - has already brought significant benefits, too often
ignored. They include greater competition, lower prices and a wider choice for
consumers. If we push for further progress in liberalising services or digital
commerce, these gains can be built on, with British firms well placed to take
advantage of the opportunities that result. Much of our inward investment also
depends on easy access to the £ 11tn EU economy. Does anyone think that the UK's
revival as a car manufacturing nation is based on the appeal of the British
market alone to foreign investors?

Last week has shown that the Conservative party's long, nervous breakdown over
Europe continues and what is essentially a Tory problem is now, once again,
becoming a national problem. Serious mistakes have been made, but the situation
is not irretrievable.

What is needed is a mixture of clear thinking, strong leadership and an
overriding concern for the national interest, not party management or advantage.
If the Conservative party is losing its head, a heavy responsibility now rests
with Labour and the Liberal Democrats to hold their nerve. In the complex and
interdependent world we inhabit today, to walk away from the European Union into
the unknown would be a very dangerous choice indeed.

Lord Howe was chancellor of the exchequer, foreign secretary and deputy prime
minister during the government of Margaret Thatcher

Captions:

David Cameron feels the strain at a meeting in New York last week.

Photograph by Justin Lane/EPA


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

Tories just about held it together in the past. This time it's different: The
Conservative factions are warring so zealously over Europe that a formal split
in the party is not unthinkable

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1510 words


As the Conservative party has spent the past week tearing itself and the
reputation of its leader to shreds, I have been logging the bulletins issued by
Number 10 that claim to describe the temperamental condition of the prime
minister. Faced with an unprecedented revolt against the government's programme
by its own MPs, we were told that David Cameron was "relaxed". When more than
half of his backbenchers went ahead and defied him, and senior members of the
cabinet declared in public that they were with the rebels in spirit, his
spokespeople announced that the prime minister was "profoundly relaxed". So when
the Tory party completely devours itself, Number 10 will presumably tell us that
David Cameron is "totally soporific".

The suggestion that the prime minister has sailed through all this humiliation
in a state of zen-like serenity is, of course, false. It ruined a three-day
visit to America that his aides had hoped to use as a platform to project him as
a statesman. Far from being chilled, the Cameron team spent every spare moment
trying to douse the firestorm back at home. They frantically put together a
draft bill on a EU referendum and rushed it across the Atlantic in an attempt to
defuse the revolt. That looked weak and panicky and simply didn't work. It may
even have encouraged the rebellion by demonstrating once again to his
backbenchers that their leader can be pushed around.

The prime minister and his advisers have always thought that looking strong was
an essential component of the Cameron brand, that appearing united was critical
to his party's chances of winning the next election, and that the Tories'
monomaniacal obsession with Europe was one of the major factors behind its
serial defeats in 1997, 2001 and 2005. The events of the past few days - I would
call them farcical, but that would be to over-dignify the spectacle - have left
him looking desperately lame, his party hopelessly divided and poisonously
fixated on an issue that rarely registers as among the top 10 concerns of most
voters.

Andrew Feldman, a despairing friend of the prime minister, denies describing
Tory activists as "mad, swivel-eyed loons". The question that David Cameron
needs to confront is this: who gave the loons the keys to the asylum? The place
to start is with Mr Cameron himself and particularly the speech he made at the
beginning of the year that promised an in/out referendum on membership of the
European Union in the next parliament.

He and his people convinced themselves that this was a masterstroke. They
excitedly proclaimed that they had "shot and stuffed" Nigel Farage's fox. They
believed - they really did - that they had crafted a position that almost
everyone in the Conservative party could unite around. They further fooled
themselves into thinking that they could now forget about Europe until the
general election and talk about the issues that mattered a whole lot more to
most voters.

There was a certain logic to that. Whatever your view about Britain's membership
of the European Union, Mr Cameron's renegotiate-then-decide policy chimes with
the feelings of a majority of voters as expressed to pollsters and ought to have
been a position around which the bulk of a sensible Conservative party could
rally. The trouble is that it was predicated on his party being willing to trust
their leader and being capable of shutting up about Europe. They don't and they
can't. Some of us predicted at the time that the referendum pledge would not be
the end of his troubles, but the beginning of more severe ones. Four months on,
Ukip's fox has not been shot, it has been fattened. The outists in the Tory
party are more intoxicated and rampant than ever. The headlines are daily filled
with accounts of Conservative splits.

Some liken him to a bullied child in the playground. The reason they gang up on
him is because he has repeatedly demonstrated that he will give in to them. Each
time he surrenders a concession to his tormentors, they pocket it and then come
back for more. As a result, he has adjusted his position on Europe more often
than John Major had to change his shirt on Black Wednesday. His latest attempt
to appease them is to put his support behind a private member's bill legislating
for a 2017 referendum. This means that the Tories will carry on banging on about
Europe for months. It guarantees further rows with his backbenchers because the
sceptics and phobes will complain that Mr Cameron is not making enough effort to
force the bill through Parliament. Some are already suggesting he should
threaten to collapse the coalition if Nick Clegg won't drop the Lib Dems'
opposition. It will also be a further waste of the prime minister's time and
authority. There are not the votes to pass this bill. The Tories do not have a
majority in the Commons, a blindingly obvious fact that seems to escape many of
them. Even if this bill were to be passed, it would still be meaningless because
one parliament cannot bind the next.

According to the Spectator, which specialises in navigating this crazy maze,
there are "eight key Eurosceptic factions" in the Tory party. Just the eight of
them, eh? It is highly reminiscent of the leftwing groupuscules that flourished
in the 1980s, immiserating the lives of Labour leaders and doing so much damage
to that party's electoral prospects. As is the way with zealots, their demands
become increasingly surreal. Some are now pressing for two referendums, a before
and an after. Others clamour for Mr Cameron to publish a long shopping list of
what he would seek to extract from Europe in any renegotiation. He has so far
resisted doing that on the perfectly reasonable grounds that it is some way
ahead, he can't yet know what sort of Europe he might be negotiating about and
nor can he be sure what other EU states might want.

He is conscious that his prospects of finding allies in Europe willing to
accommodate British demands are weakened if they conclude that we are bound for
the exit. He can't even know whether he will be there to do a negotiation. The
first stage in the sequence is the Tory party winning the next election, a
prospect that its behaviour makes daily less likely.

That won't stop his backbenchers demanding now and in detail which powers he
would try to bring back to Westminster and what opt-outs he would seek. They
will do so claiming to be friends of Mr Cameron, saying that he needs to refute
Lord Lawson when that grandee opines, from his home in France, that any
renegotiation will be a cosmetic sham. The real reason many if not most of them
want to see the prime minister's negotiating position is so that they can
condemn it as inadequate. We cannot fairly place all the blame for this on Mr
Cameron. John Major, a naturally consensual character working with a vanishing
majority, was tortured over Europe. Margaret Thatcher, a combative personality
with a landslide majority, was in part brought down over Europe.

One of the men who triggered her fall, Geoffrey Howe, writes elsewhere on these
pages. As he puts it, the Conservative party is suffering "a long nervous
breakdown" that would not be so serious if it were not a problem for the nation
as well. The Tory party has become so ungovernable that no putative alternative
leader, including Boris Johnson, who has zigged and zagged on the issue every
bit as much as Mr Cameron, could manage its self-destructive passions.

These have been further fuelled by members of the cabinet who have abandoned any
sense of collective responsibility - or even basic loyalty - to their leader. I
am told that Michael Gove and Philip Hammond were rebuked by the prime minister
for undermining his position by saying in public that they would vote to quit
the EU if a referendum were held now. The chastisement does not appear to have
been very effective. The defence secretary, who is making a habit of tossing
hand grenades at his supposed commander, then went on television to declare that
the legislation on gay marriage was a waste of time.

The Tory press also bears some responsibility. Conservative commentators express
shock and horror that their party is self-harming over Europe, and sigh with
dismay that it is doing so just when there is some tentatively better news on
the economy. Yet those very same papers have devoted many years and many acres
of space to feeding the obsession they now complain about.

Many have drawn a parallel between what is happening to David Cameron and what
became of John Major in the belief that there is no more wounding insult to a
Tory prime minister than to compare him with the man who tucked his shirt into
his underpants. Yet I am not sure that is quite right. However badly the Tories
were convulsed in the past, they just about held together. I think it is no
longer impossible to imagine that ultimately the Conservative party will
formally split over Europe - an outcome a referendum could actually make more
likely. At which point his spin doctors will no doubt issue a bulletin informing
us that David Cameron is "completely comatose".


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 789 words


The history of British Euroscepticism is shot through with complexities,
contradictions and self-deceptions. As Hugo Young points out in This Blessed
Plot, his account of Britain's relations with Europe since the second world war:
"On no question of this period did more people in British public life change
their minds than on Europe." Many politicians wanted to believe, as did many
members of the public, that we would somehow be able to muddle through and find
a middle course: could we be involved in Europe without giving up the right to
run our own affairs? The six most significant versions of Euroscepticism were
represented by the following politicians:

1 Stick with the Commonwealth

The first great Eurosceptic (though the term had yet to be invented) was Hugh
Gaitskell, leader of the Labour party. His motives for deciding in 1962 to
oppose the Macmillan government's application to join what was then known as the
Common Market were mixed. But a vital factor for him, as for many others, was
the break this would represent with the Commonwealth. On the Tory side, this
pro-Commonwealth variety of Euroscepticism, according to which we were better
off remaining allied with our "kith and kin" in countries such as New Zealand,
was already represented by the Anti-Common Market League, whose president,
Victor Montagu, said we did not want to be subjugated "to a lot of frogs and
Huns". In a stirring speech to the Labour party conference in October 1962,
Gaitskell warned that membership of the Common Market would mean "the end of
Britain as an independent European state" and "the end of a thousand years of
history". In the event, Charles de Gaulle vetoed Britain's first application to
join, as well as a subsequent attempt made by the Labour government in 1967.

2 Parliamentary sovereignty

When Edward Heath led the Conservatives back to power in 1970, he was determined
to bring the third British application to join to a successful conclusion, and
Enoch Powell was determined to stop him. Powell had acquiesced in the two
earlier applications to join, but now emerged as a ferocious defender of
national sovereignty: so ferocious that he left the Tory party and advised
Tories to vote Labour. This manoeuvre failed: for although in 1975 Harold Wilson
held a referendum, which was the only way for him to deal with Labour divisions,
the British people voted to stay in Europe. Powell lamented: "It is the nation
that is dying, it is dying politically - or rather, perhaps, it is committing
suicide . . . to be a nation self-governed and self-taxed, living under its own
laws and accepting no external authority, meant nothing."

3 Handbag Euroscepticism

Margaret Thatcher campaigned for a "yes" vote in the 1975 referendum, and
although as prime minister from 1979 she demanded, and at length got, a rebate
on Britain's contribution to the EU budget, she also supported the Single
European Act: a major extension of European power carried out in the name of
free trade. So she was more of a Euro-pragmatist than her admirers care to
remember. But her implacable resistance to further extension of Brussels'
powers, encapsulated in the words "no, no, no", led at the end of 1990 to the
resignation of Sir Geoffrey Howe and to her downfall.

4 The Maastricht rebels

Thatcher's successor, John Major, was able to keep the European issue under
control for long enough to enable him to win an unexpected general election
victory in 1992. But he then found himself plunged into a debilitating war of
attrition with

Tory rebels who refused to accept the deal he had negotiated at Maastricht. This
included opt-outs from monetary union and the social chapter, which were
initially hailed as a triumph even by Eurosceptics. But very soon the
"bastards", as Major dubbed his Tory opponents, were making his life a complete
misery. Tory Eurosceptics such as Bill Cash and Nick Budgen had become virtually
impossible to placate.

5 Ukip and the

Referendum Party

Fringe parties sprang up to campaign on the European issue. The UK Independence
Party, founded in 1993, was overshadowed at the 1997 general election by Sir
James Goldsmith's Referendum party, which won no seats but placed heavy pressure
on the Conservatives and Labour: a role more recently seized by Ukip under the
leadership of Nigel Farage, who has a gift for appealing to disappointed
patriots that none of the conventional parties has yet discovered how to match.

6 Thatcher's children

Many of the most gifted members of the 2010 intake of Tory MPs were inspired in
their youth by the way Thatcher took on Brussels. They now have the capacity to
make David Cameron's prime ministership every bit as tortured as Major's was.

ANDREW GIMSON IS A

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR TO CONSERVATIVEHOME


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

In Focus: Out, out, out! Can anybody stem the Eurosceptic tide?: The
Conservatives, not for the first time (see above), are tearing themselves apart
over Europe. Eurosceptics have become more vocal and the PM seems unable to deal
with the growing rebellion. Daniel Boffey looks at the challenge to David
Cameron and talks to the leading Tory advocating a Europe exit: A HEROINE AND A
ROLE MODEL Janine di Giovanni on Angelina Jolie's work in Bosnia Page 31:
CAMERON ON THE EU

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1768 words


During one of the rare moments when Richard Ottaway MP has attracted any
attention at all, he was described as a "blameless and inconspicuous" Tory by a
sketchwriter. The MP for Croydon South, who is due to stand down at the next
election after over 20 years' service, is not a stirrer or controversy seekers.
He chairs the foreign affairs select committee and has a mild attachment to the
European Union because of the economic benefits he believes it brings, but his
views seldom make news.

So it was a startling moment when, as Ottaway ended a short address during the
Queen's speech debate last week, he was laughed at and almost jeered by his
colleagues. He had made the mistake of suggesting that since he too wanted
reform of the EU, he could hardly be described as a Europhile. After the
kangaroo court of Eurosceptics on the Tory benches gave their mocking verdict,
Ottaway told the Commons, flushed and embarrassed: "That sort of contemptuous
laugh does no good to the debate whatever."

Ottaway was suffering the kind of trashing that many minorities have
experienced. And Tories even mildly sympathetic to the case for Britain's
membership of the EU are in danger of becoming just that: a minority. One Tory
MP has suggested that Europhilia on his party's backbenches was now "the love
that dare not speak its name".

The parliamentary party's Europhile group, European Mainstream, has just 50
members, dwarfed by the number of antis. In less than two years, their influence
within the party has been utterly undermined.

In September 2011 David Cameron told the Commons at prime minister's questions
that he could not see the case for an in-out referendum. It was ruled out:
Britain had had its say in 1975. Nothing doing.

But in the same month George Eustice MP, a one-time Ukip member who also stood
in as Cameron's press spokesman during his leadership campaign, established a
new Eurosceptic group of Tory MPs demanding a "new relationship" with the EU.

By May last year the editor of the activist website ConservativeHome, Tim
Montgomerie, who is now comment editor at Rupert Murdoch's Times newspaper,
predicted a Eurosceptic takeover was under way. Its time would come.

Then in June, John Baron, the MP for Basildon and Billericay, delivered a letter
to the prime minister signed by 100 MPs, calling on him to place on the statute
book "by the next general election a commitment to hold a referendum on the
nature of our relationship with the EU within the next parliament".

By January this year Cameron was announcing that he would offer such an in-out
referendum should he win the next general election because the people should
have their say - but only after he had secured some changes and could offer them
a reformed European Union as an alternative to withdrawal. He refused to
countenance legislation in the current parliament to guarantee that such a
referendum would take place. Why would he, when his Lib Dem coalition partners
would never sign up to it?

Geoffrey Howe, the former chancellor, writing today in the Observer (Comment,
page 33), puts it well: "Having previously opposed the introduction of
legislation in this parliament to hold a referendum in the next one, the prime
minister suddenly allowed a free vote among backbenchers, with the government
abstaining, on the extraordinary basis that the party had no policy on the
issue.

"Then, once more than 100 backbenchers had voted for such a referendum, he
immediately insisted that all Conservative MPs, whatever their view, should from
now on support the proposal, on a three-line whip, whereas only the day before
they could take any position they chose.

"This saga looks more like the politics of the French Fourth Republic than the
serious practice of government."

The Benny Hill-style parliamentary runaround has been given added drama by the
interventions of education secretary Michael Gove and defence secretary Philip
Hammond, leadership hopefuls both, who have suggested that if there were a
referendum tomorrow, they would vote to leave the EU.

Nigel Lawson, in Montgomerie's comment pages in the Times, said no matter what
happened he believed we were better off out.

The extraordinary upping of the ante on the Europe question can only be
understood in the context of a 2010 intake of MPS who were schooled in
Eurosceptic politics under the leadership of Michael Howard and the save the £
campaigns of William Hague. Those MPs have been further radicalised by the euro
crisis and the rise of the Ukip threat. So what now?

Sitting in his Commons office in Portcullis House, Baron, the man behind the
pivotal letter of the summer of 2012, was in good spirits on Thursday. He had
endured some rough and tumble with the BBC's Andrew Neil earlier in the day, but
he says he quite enjoyed it. His wife maybe not so much: "She can't see the back
of me. I get out of bed in the morning, she rolls over, turns on the radio and
I'm on the radio," he chortles.

The prime minister may be feeling the same way. Not content with filing his
letter last year, it was Baron who was behind the move to force a vote
condemning the Queen's speech for the lack of referendum legislation.

The prime minister's aides insist Cameron was "very relaxed" about that vote.
Maybe. Senior backbenchers have said that at the last meeting of the 1922
Committee of backbenchers a series of members appeared to have been encouraged
by the leadership to stand up and call for unity.

Baron won't comment on all that. A former captain of the Royal Regiment of
Fusiliers, he regards himself, still, as a loyalist. "We are reinforcing the
prime minister's direction of travel," he says, with no little mischief. "It's
his direction of travel, as I understand it." He chuckles.

Baron, 53, who says he has been "a Eurosceptic all my thinking life", would not
have joined the European Community if he had been old enough to vote on it and
dislikes the idea of ever closer political union.

"The British people are not into this vision thing," he says. "We have a proud
history. For reasons different to those on the continent, we perhaps have a bit
more confidence in ourselves, I don't know. But we didn't join for ever closer
political union.

"We want friendly terms, we want to co-operate on what is important. We want
good trade relationships, and wish the EU all the best, but we are going to balk
at ever closer political union."

Does he, as a loyalist, have qualms about upsetting the prime minister? "None
whatsoever," he shoots back. "What I am trying to do is nudge the party closer
to the electorate. That's what we have done, actually. A week is a long time in
politics. A week ago we didn't have party support for any legislation, and a
week ago we had no sight of a bill. Now we have got both.

"And that is progress, in my view because it more closely follows what the
electorate wants."

Recent polls show that those who want the UK to leave the EU and those who want
the country to stay in are evenly matched. An Opinium/Observer poll published
today suggests that more than two-thirds of voters (67%) want Cameron to "listen
and pay more attention" to the views of his backbenchers.

But, for all that, the history books show that the electorate, when it comes to
the crunch, dislikes disunity in a party. Baron received a voicemail message on
his office phone on Thursday morning from a party member saying he respected the
MP's position but adding: "This has got to stop."

And the party isn't just split between those who want the country to stay in and
those who want to get out. They are split about the number of referendums
needed, the substance of reforms the prime minister should seek before a
referendum, the desirability or otherwise of legislation ensuring that there
will be a referendum, and over many other arcane points that only a Conservative
party which was fixated on Europe could even consider as politically
significant.

So what would convince Baron to vote for the UK to stay in the EU? "Instead of
getting bogged down in detail, I say: let's see what he comes back with," he
says. "But, you know, he is going to be up against it. Having said that, I wish
him well."

Meanwhile, party grandees such as Lord Howe look on and despair. In comments
that will chill Cameron's aides, Howe writes today: "Sadly, by making it clear
in January that he opposes the current terms of UK membership of the EU, the
prime minister has opened a Pandora's box politically and seems to be losing
control of his party in the process.

"The ratchet-effect of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the Conservative
leadership is in effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone Ukip,
having allowed deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party."

Howe's main concern is that the Tory party is inching, as its "long nervous
breakdown" comes to a conclusion, towards having withdrawal from the EU as a
manifesto pledge.

"The risk now is that, if it loses the next general election - a far from
negligible possibility - the Conservative party will move to a position of
simply opposing Britain's continued membership, with or without a referendum,"
he writes.

These are ominous words for Tory MPs such as Margot James, a rising star in the
party, one of those on Cameron's A-list of parliamentary candidates in 2010 who
were expected to deliver modern thinking to the party

"Nigel Lawson has asserted that the costs of the EU membership outweigh the
benefits but where is the evidence?" she asks.

Howe today tries to offer a counterweight to the anti-EU cause. It remains to be
seen if others will step up to the plate, risk the scorn of the antis, and make
the case too.

October 2010: "The key to a referendum is this: Are we transferring powers. If
yes, a referendum. If not, no referendum."

October 2011: "It's not the right time, at this moment of economic crisis, to
launch legislation that includes an in-out referendum. This is not the time to
argue about walking away."

October 2012: I've always opposed the straight in-out referendum in that I'm
neither in favour of out - leaving altogether - nor am I satisfied with the
status quo. I want to change the status quo. We've always said that, when we've
achieved that fresh settlement, it needs consent, either at a referendum or a
general election."

January 2013: "We will give the British people a referendum with a very simple
in-or-out choice to stay in the EU on these new terms; or come out altogether.
It will be an in-out referendum."

May 2013: 'We've got a chance to legislate for it (an in-out referendum) in
parliament and it's now up to the other parties what they're going to do."


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

Lord Howe: Tory party is 'out of control' over Europe: Former chancellor accuses
Cameron Euroscepticism 'infecting party soul': ON OTHER PAGES

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey Policy Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words


Lord Howe, the former Conservative chancellor who triggered the downfall of
Margaret Thatcher, has launched a scathing attack on the prime minister,
accusing him of running scared of his backbenchers and endangering Britain's
future in Europe.

The Tory grandee says David Cameron has opened a Pandora's box by opposing the
current terms of the UK's membership of the European Union and now appears to be
losing control of his party. The prime minister's actions, Howe writes in the
Observer today, have turned an internal Tory problem into a national one.

In a highly significant intervention over Britain's future, Howe laments the
"new, almost farcical" level of debate over Europe in the Tory party, and says
that Labour and the Liberal Democrats may need to bear the burden of retrieving
the situation. Howe, Thatcher's longest-serving cabinet minister, whose
resignation speech in 1990 is widely considered to have precipitated the then
prime minister's downfall, writes: "Sadly, by making it clear in January that he
opposes the current terms of UK membership of the EU, the prime minister has
opened a Pandora's box politically and seems to be losing control of his party
in the process.

"The ratchet-effect of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the Conservative
leadership is in effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone Ukip,
having allowed deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party."

Howe, who was also a former foreign secretary and deputy prime minister under
the late Baroness Thatcher, adds that the events of recent days, in which the
prime minister has been forced to offer more and more to satisfy his Eurosceptic
MPs, were "more like the politics of the French Fourth Republic than the serious
practice of government".

Citing the intervention of President Obama, who last week championed reform of
the EU over Britain's exit, Howe laments: "The Conservative party now needs a US
president to tell it what it once had the confidence to proclaim as common sense
itself."

Howe's savage attack on the prime minister's leadership and the actions of his
party follows the successful attempt by Eurosceptic backbenchers to bounce the
prime minister into the publication last week of a draft referendum bill on EU
membership.

Cameron had already been forced in January, against his stated will, to promise
an in-out referendum before 2017, but the prime minister's backbenchers have
since been demanding further assurances in the form of legislation. Eurosceptic
Tory backbenchers have been energised by Ukip's success in the recent local
elections, and a huge rise in national polls.

A new Opinium/Observer poll has Ukip attracting 20% of the vote, with Labour on
37%, the Conservatives on 27% and the Liberal Democrats down to 7%.

Howe states that the risk for the Conservative party, as Europe rises ever
further up its internal agenda, is that it loses the next general election and
moves to a position of "simply opposing Britain's continued membership, with or
without a referendum".

In stark contrast to the view of his friend and former cabinet colleague Lord
Lawson, who wrote recently that Britain should leave the EU, Howe believes that
the UK is unlikely to hold anything like the position of power to which it
aspires without the vehicle of the EU, unless the country was to join the United
States. "Leaving the union would, by contrast in my view, be a tragic expression
of our shrinking influence and role in the world - and the humbling of our
ambitions, already sorely tested by the current crisis, to remain a serious
political or economic player on the global stage."

Describing a withdrawal from the European Union as a "very dangerous choice
indeed", the peer says Britons have hugely benefited from greater competition,
lower prices and wider choice, due to membership of the EU.

Howe adds that much of the UK's inward investment depends on easy access to the
£ 11 trillion EU economy. He writes: "Does anyone think that the UK's revival as
a motor car manufacturing nation is based on the appeal of the British market
alone to foreign investors?"

In a withering assessment of his party's long-standing preoccupation with
Brussels, he adds: "This week has shown that the Conservative party's long
nervous breakdown over Europe continues, and what is essentially a Tory problem
is now, once again, becoming a national problem, too."

He continues: "A number of serious mistakes have been made but the situation is
not irretrievable. What is needed is a mixture of clear thinking, strong
leadership and an overriding concern for the national interest - not party
management or advantage.

"If the Conservative party is losing its head, a heavy responsibility now rests
with Labour and the Liberal Democrats."

Can anybody stem the Eurosceptic tide?

In Focus, 26-27; Geoffrey Howe: A new, farcical low 33; Andrew Rawnsley 35


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

Senior Tory denies describing party activists as 'swivel-eyed loons'

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey, Barry Neild and Nick Watt

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 462 words


The co-chairman of the Conservatives has denied describing party activists as
"swivel-eyed loons" after rumours circulated on the internet that he was the
source for remarks widely published over the weekend.

Lord Feldman said he was taking legal advice after posts on Twitter implied he
was the senior Tory quoted anonymously in several national newspapers. The
mystery Tory made the remarks at a party dinner event - allegedly in earshot of
journalists - after being asked about the decision of 116 party MPs to defy the
prime minister and vote in favour of an amendment regretting the absence of an
EU referendum in the Queen's speech.

The unnamed figure is reported as saying: "It's fine. There's really no problem.
The MPs just have to do it because the associations tell them to, and the
associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons." In a statement Feldman, who was a
friend of David Cameron at Oxford University, said: "There is speculation on the
internet and on Twitter that the senior Conservative party figure claimed to
have made derogatory comments by the Times and the Telegraph is me.

"This is completely untrue. I am very disappointed by the behaviour of the
journalists involved, who have allowed rumour and innuendo to take hold by not
putting these allegations to me before publication. I am taking legal advice."

The remarks threaten to inflame the incendiary row between Conservative
grassroots and Cameron's inner circle, who are criticised as being "out of
touch". Feldman was at a dinner of the Conservative Friends of Pakistan on
Wednesday at the Intercontinetal hotel in Westminster where the remarks were
said to have been made. However, those sitting near him are said by sources
close to Feldman to be willing to publicly deny hearing anything similar to the
comments reported.

The Conservative party last night went on the attack suggesting similarities
between the Twitter rumours around Feldman and the defamatory claims wrongly
connecting former party treasurer Lord McAlpine to child abuse allegations.

James Kirkup, the Telegraph journalist who reported the remarks, tweeted: "I
have seen Lord Feldman's statement. I stand by my story. Nothing more to say
beyond this."

Those posting comments on the Conservative Home blog yesterday were unforgiving.
Sandy Jamieson wrote: "We activists are all 'mad, swivel-eyed loons'. Of course
we are - we elected David Cameron as leader."

A Downing Street spokesman said: "The prime minister supports Lord Feldman's
position. It is categorically untrue that anyone in Downing Street made the
comments about the Conservative party associations and activists reported in the
Times and the Telegraph."

Captions:

Lord Feldman has said he is taking legal advice over the allegation, which
circulated

on the internet.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 437 words


by Eurosceptic backbenchers to bounce the prime minister into the publication
last week of a draft referendum bill on EU membership.

Cameron had already been forced in January, against his stated will, to promise
an in-out referendum before 2017, but the prime minister's backbenchers have
since been demanding further assurances in the form of legislation. Eurosceptic
Tory backbenchers have been energised by Ukip's success in the recent local
elections, and a huge rise in national polls.

A new Opinium/Observer poll has Ukip attracting 20% of the vote, with Labour on
37%, the Conservatives on 27% and the Liberal Democrats down to 7%.

Howe states that the risk for the Conservative party, as Europe rises ever
further up its internal agenda, is that it loses the next general election and
moves to a position of "simply opposing Britain's continued membership, with or
without a referendum".

In stark contrast to the view of his friend and former cabinet colleague Lord
Lawson, who wrote recently that Britain should leave the EU, Howe believes that
the UK is unlikely to hold anything like the position of power to which it
aspires without the vehicle of the EU, unless the country was to join the United
States.

"Leaving the union would, by contrast in my view, be a tragic expression of our
shrinking influence and role in the world - and the humbling of our ambitions,
already sorely tested by the current crisis, to remain a serious political or
economic player on the global stage."

Describing a withdrawal from the European Union as a "very dangerous choice
indeed", the peer says Britons have hugely benefited from greater competition,
lower prices and wider choice, due to membership of the EU.

Howe adds that much of the UK's inward investment depends on easy access to the
£ 11 trillion EU economy. He writes: "Does anyone think that the UK's revival as
a motor car manufacturing nation is based on the appeal of the British market
alone to foreign investors?"

In a withering assessment of his party's longstanding preoccupation with
Brussels, he adds: "This week has shown that the Conservative party's long
nervous breakdown over Europe continues, and what is essentially a Tory problem
is now, once again, becoming a national problem, too."

He continues: "A number of serious mistakes have been made but the situation is
not irretrievable. What is needed is a mixture of clear thinking, strong
leadership and an overriding concern for the national interest - not party
management or advantage.

"If the Conservative party is losing its head, a heavy responsibility now rests
with Labour and the Liberal Democrats."


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

Business: Analysis: IN MY VIEW: Get out of Europe? I'd rather leave this slump
behind instead

BYLINE: William Keegan

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 875 words


According to Greek mythology, Cerberus was the many-headed hound that stood at
the gates of Hades, the underworld. Feeding the hound of hell was a thankless
task. He always wanted more. Hence the expression "a sop to Cerberus", meaning a
futile gift of a morsel that only leaves the hound baying for more.

I am not suggesting for one moment that Ukip or the Tory party are dogs. But the
expression "a sop to Cerberus" - much favoured by my classics master in days
gone by - does keep coming to mind, with our beleaguered prime minister in the
increasingly frustrating position of delivering the sops.

Mythical history does not relate whether there are also pigeons at the gates of
Hades. But if there are, my old friend Lord Lawson has certainly thrown a cat
among them with his Ukip-style call for us to leave the European Union
altogether - he who himself lives a fair proportion of the year in la belle
France

Lawson likes the way of life in France. So do many of us, who seize every
opportunity to relish it - unlike, it seems from recent opinion polls, the
French themselves, who are not as content as we thought.

It was admiration for the standards of the French and other European health
systems that prompted New Labour to devote a fair proportion of the budget to
modernising our own NHS. Further back, envy of what was perceived as superior
economic performance was one of the main reasons why our nation applied to join
what was then the Common Market.

Whether they vote Conservative, Labour or otherwise, the British people are
fundamentally conservative. In the 1975 referendum they always seemed likely to
vote to stay in, rather than take a leap outside. And, whatever the opinion
polls show now, I suspect that if this new proposed referendum ever takes place,
there will once again be a vote for staying in. But what a lot of time would be
wasted meanwhile!

As older readers will know, I have always regarded the EU, for all its
irritations, as what the authors of 1066 and All That would have described as a
Good Thing. But the eurozone was a step too far, and it is to the credit of John
Major that we "opted out" and to the credit of Gordon Brown that Tony Blair's
pressure to join was resisted.

The ultimate irony was the spectacle last week of David Cameron, in his capacity
as this year's chairman of the G8, representing the EU in early discussions with
President Obama about a proposed free trade area with the US, while back home
his MPs and even ministers were calling for our complete withdrawal from the EU.

As the president reminded Cameron, it is in the UK's best interests to remain in
the EU. He could have added that membership of the EU and exemption from the
eurozone gives us the best combination.

Freedom from the constraints of the single currency has enabled us to secure a
devaluation that, according to the latest estimates from the Office for Budget
Responsibility, produced a gain in net trade (exports minus imports) equivalent
to 2% of GDP between the fourth quarter of 2007 and the fourth quarter of 2010.
Recent figures have not been so good, but have been distorted by the vagaries of
production of North Sea oil. The governor of the Bank of England, Sir Mervyn
King, pointed out last week that since 2007 and the devaluation, the trade
deficit (excluding North Sea oil) has averaged 1.5% of GDP compared with 3%
before.

Such exchange rate adjustments have not been available to the suffering southern
states of the eurozone vis-a-vis super-competitive Germany. Nor, for that
matter, have they been available to France. Moreover, the weaker eurozone
economies have been further debilitated by austerity programmes that derive
partly from the Teutonic belief that suffering does lesser economies good and
partly from the way the bond markets panicked until Mario Draghi, president of
the European Central Bank, promised to do "whatever it takes" to keep the show
on the road.

The bond markets have now woken up to the deficiencies of the austerity model.
The fundamental flaws of the way the policy operates in the eurozone are well
explained in the latest weekly comment from Russell Jones and John Llewellyn of
Llewellyn Consulting. Coming from analysts who, unusually for this country, have
been broadly friendly towards the eurozone project, their questioning of the
long-term sustainability of the eurozone, on account of the asymmetrical way the
rules operate, ought to be taken seriously in Berlin and Frankfurt.

What makes the British economic situation so frustrating is that we are not
subject to the deflationary bias of the eurozone: George Osborne and his pals
have simply imposed one of their own, inventing imaginary threats from the bond
markets.

The cuts in social security have been especially severe for the poorest in our
society. Yet, as the Child Poverty Action Group points out, the poorest spend a
larger proportion of their income than other groups, and the cuts have
multiplier effects that hardly encourage that elusive recovery. The cuts are not
only damaging in themselves: they are what Tim Nicholls of CPAG calls a "fiscal
hindrance" to economic recovery.

What a convenient diversion from the damage caused by the chancellor's economic
strategy all this nonsense about leaving the EU is.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

Comment: This is a new, farcical low and David Cameron is losing control: The
former foreign secretary and chancellor says Tory backbenchers' desire to get
out of Europe would leave Britain dangerously isolated. He calls on the Lib Dems
and Labour to stand strong if the prime minister cannot

BYLINE: Geoffrey Howe

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1324 words


Unfortunately, last week's events in the House of Commons have brought the
debate on Europe within the Conservative party to a new, almost farcical, low.
Having previously opposed the introduction of legislation in this parliament to
hold a referendum in the next one, the prime minister suddenly allowed a free
vote among backbenchers, with the government abstaining, on the extraordinary
basis that the party had no policy on the issue.

Then, once more than 100 backbenchers had voted for such a referendum, he
insisted that all Tory MPs, whatever their view, should from now on support the
proposal, on a three-line whip, whereas only the day before they could take any
position they chose. This saga looks more like the politics of the French Fourth
Republic than the serious practice of government and it is especially
disappointing and damaging on such an important issue - the place of Britain in
Europe and the world.

Sadly, by making it clear in January that he opposes the current terms of UK
membership of the EU, the prime minister has opened a Pandora's box politically
and seems to be losing control of his party in the process. The ratchet-effect
of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the Conservative leadership is in
effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone Ukip, having allowed
deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party. The risk now is
that, if it loses the next general election - a far from negligible possibility
- the Conservative party will move to a position of simply opposing Britain's
continued membership, with or without a referendum.

Archimedes said: "Give me a place on which to stand and lever long enough, and I
will move the world." British foreign policy should be about maximising and
exploiting the levers we possess - whether through Europe, the transatlantic
relationship or the Commonwealth - not breaking them or throwing them away.

In this context, I have yet to meet any significant western political figure
from beyond our shores who can understand why Britain would even contemplate
leaving the European Union, which is now a key point of leverage for this
country in the modern world.

In Washington, Tokyo, Beijing, New Delhi or Moscow, let alone in all other EU
national capitals, it seems obvious that the UK needs the union as the platform
and vehicle by which to influence events and policy in many spheres. Nowadays,
with the possible exception of Germany, a country such as Britain, boasting
about 1% of the world's population and 3% of the world's GDP, is unlikely to be
able to hold anything like the position of power to which we continue to aspire,
unless this is firmly anchored in a strong alliances and, ideally, a credible
regional framework. With the decline of Nato, the only such framework available,
unless we seek to join the United States, is basically the European Union.

The Americans have always wanted Britain to play a leadership role in a united
Europe - from the early 1950s through to today. It has been a constant of US
foreign policy that any "special relationship" is not based on nostalgia or some
mystical solidarity among the "English-speaking peoples", but on a realpolitik
assessment of our capacity to help shape our continent in a modern,
outward-looking direction.

Half a century ago, in making Britain's first application, Harold Macmillan
understood this very well. He wrote: "If we remain outside the European
Community, it seems to me inevitable that the realities of power would compel
our American friends to attach increasing weight to the views and interests of
the six in Europe, with others who may join them, and to pay less attention to
our own. We would find the United States and the community concerting policy
together on major issues, with much less incentive than now to secure our
agreement or even consult our opinion. To lose influence both in Europe and
Washington, as this must mean, would seriously undermine our international
position and hence, one must add, our usefulness to the Commonwealth."

Every one of Macmillan's words remains as true and powerful today as in 1962 -
except that, first, the six are now the 27; and second, Britain is a much lesser
force in world affairs, making the problem he describes more acute.

Last week, President Obama called Britain's membership an "expression of the
UK's influence and role in the world". Leaving the union would, by contrast, in
my view, be a tragic expression of our shrinking influence and role in the world
- and the humbling of our ambitions, already sorely tested by the current
crisis, to remain a serious political or economic player on the global stage.

Earlier this year, Obama made it clear that America wants "a strong United
Kingdom in a strong European Union", not a weak or isolated UK outside a
broken-backed EU. Ironically, his words echoed the "Strong Britain in a Strong
Europe" manifesto slogan on which the Conservatives fought the 1994 European
elections. Almost two decades later, the Conservative party now needs a US
president to tell it what it once had the confidence to proclaim as common sense
itself.

Another irony was that the prime minister's main business in Washington was to
discuss the launch of negotiations for an EU-US free-trade agreement and single
market, officially known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership.
It is the EU, not the member states individually, which will negotiate TTIP. If
successful, it will create the largest single open economic area in the world,
even bigger than Europe's existing single market, and help us set global
standards in a world where neither Europe nor even America has that leverage on
its own. Where would the UK fit into this, as an independent island, stranded
between markets of 450 million and 300 million apiece? Outside the EU, we would
have to accept the terms of whatever deal Washington and Brussels decide, with
us enjoying no meaningful influence on either side.

This pattern would be repeated across the board internationally. Outside the EU,
Britain would have to renegotiate hundreds of existing EU trade, investment and
aid deals with countries all around. I find it difficult to imagine the
Japanese, South Koreans or Brazilians queuing up to give us a better deal than
26 (soon 27) other European countries, including Germany, can extract as a bloc.

Creating and completing the European single market of 500 million consumers - a
major British objective - has already brought significant benefits, too often
ignored. They include greater competition, lower prices and a wider choice for
consumers. If we push for further progress in liberalising services or digital
commerce, these gains can be built on, with British firms well placed to take
advantage of the opportunities that result. Much of our inward investment also
depends on easy access to the £ 11tn EU economy. Does anyone think that the UK's
revival as a car manufacturing nation is based on the appeal of the British
market alone to foreign investors?

Last week has shown that the Conservative party's long, nervous breakdown over
Europe continues and what is essentially a Tory problem is now, once again,
becoming a national problem. Serious mistakes have been made, but the situation
is not irretrievable.

What is needed is a mixture of clear thinking, strong leadership and an
overriding concern for the national interest, not party management or advantage.
If the Conservative party is losing its head, a heavy responsibility now rests
with Labour and the Liberal Democrats to hold their nerve. In the complex and
interdependent world we inhabit today, to walk away from the European Union into
the unknown would be a very dangerous choice indeed.

Lord Howe was chancellor of the exchequer, foreign secretary and deputy prime
minister during the government of Margaret Thatcher

Captions:

David Cameron feels the strain at a meeting in New York last week.

Photograph by Justin Lane/EPA


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

Comment: Tories just about held it together in the past. This time it's
different: The Conservative factions are warring so zealously over Europe that a
formal split in the party is not unthinkable

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1510 words


As the Conservative party has spent the past week tearing itself and the
reputation of its leader to shreds, I have been logging the bulletins issued by
Number 10 that claim to describe the temperamental condition of the prime
minister. Faced with an unprecedented revolt against the government's programme
by its own MPs, we were told that David Cameron was "relaxed". When more than
half of his backbenchers went ahead and defied him, and senior members of the
cabinet declared in public that they were with the rebels in spirit, his
spokespeople announced that the prime minister was "profoundly relaxed". So when
the Tory party completely devours itself, Number 10 will presumably tell us that
David Cameron is "totally soporific".

The suggestion that the prime minister has sailed through all this humiliation
in a state of zen-like serenity is, of course, false. It ruined a three-day
visit to America that his aides had hoped to use as a platform to project him as
a statesman. Far from being chilled, the Cameron team spent every spare moment
trying to douse the firestorm back at home. They frantically put together a
draft bill on a EU referendum and rushed it across the Atlantic in an attempt to
defuse the revolt. That looked weak and panicky and simply didn't work. It may
even have encouraged the rebellion by demonstrating once again to his
backbenchers that their leader can be pushed around.

The prime minister and his advisers have always thought that looking strong was
an essential component of the Cameron brand, that appearing united was critical
to his party's chances of winning the next election, and that the Tories'
monomaniacal obsession with Europe was one of the major factors behind its
serial defeats in 1997, 2001 and 2005. The events of the past few days - I would
call them farcical, but that would be to over-dignify the spectacle - have left
him looking desperately lame, his party hopelessly divided and poisonously
fixated on an issue that rarely registers as among the top 10 concerns of most
voters.

Andrew Feldman, a despairing friend of the prime minister, denies describing
Tory activists as "mad, swivel-eyed loons". The question that David Cameron
needs to confront is this: who gave the loons the keys to the asylum? The place
to start is with Mr Cameron himself and particularly the speech he made at the
beginning of the year that promised an in/out referendum on membership of the
European Union in the next parliament.

He and his people convinced themselves that this was a masterstroke. They
excitedly proclaimed that they had "shot and stuffed" Nigel Farage's fox. They
believed - they really did - that they had crafted a position that almost
everyone in the Conservative party could unite around. They further fooled
themselves into thinking that they could now forget about Europe until the
general election and talk about the issues that mattered a whole lot more to
most voters.

There was a certain logic to that. Whatever your view about Britain's membership
of the European Union, Mr Cameron's renegotiate-then-decide policy chimes with
the feelings of a majority of voters as expressed to pollsters and ought to have
been a position around which the bulk of a sensible Conservative party could
rally. The trouble is that it was predicated on his party being willing to trust
their leader and being capable of shutting up about Europe. They don't and they
can't. Some of us predicted at the time that the referendum pledge would not be
the end of his troubles, but the beginning of more severe ones. Four months on,
Ukip's fox has not been shot, it has been fattened. The outists in the Tory
party are more intoxicated and rampant than ever. The headlines are daily filled
with accounts of Conservative splits.

Some liken him to a bullied child in the playground. The reason they gang up on
him is because he has repeatedly demonstrated that he will give in to them. Each
time he surrenders a concession to his tormentors, they pocket it and then come
back for more. As a result, he has adjusted his position on Europe more often
than John Major had to change his shirt on Black Wednesday. His latest attempt
to appease them is to put his support behind a private member's bill legislating
for a 2017 referendum. This means that the Tories will carry on banging on about
Europe for months. It guarantees further rows with his backbenchers because the
sceptics and phobes will complain that Mr Cameron is not making enough effort to
force the bill through Parliament. Some are already suggesting he should
threaten to collapse the coalition if Nick Clegg won't drop the Lib Dems'
opposition. It will also be a further waste of the prime minister's time and
authority. There are not the votes to pass this bill. The Tories do not have a
majority in the Commons, a blindingly obvious fact that seems to escape many of
them. Even if this bill were to be passed, it would still be meaningless because
one parliament cannot bind the next.

According to the Spectator, which specialises in navigating this crazy maze,
there are "eight key Eurosceptic factions" in the Tory party. Just the eight of
them, eh? It is highly reminiscent of the leftwing groupuscules that flourished
in the 1980s, immiserating the lives of Labour leaders and doing so much damage
to that party's electoral prospects. As is the way with zealots, their demands
become increasingly surreal. Some are now pressing for two referendums, a before
and an after. Others clamour for Mr Cameron to publish a long shopping list of
what he would seek to extract from Europe in any renegotiation. He has so far
resisted doing that on the perfectly reasonable grounds that it is some way
ahead, he can't yet know what sort of Europe he might be negotiating about and
nor can he be sure what other EU states might want.

He is conscious that his prospects of finding allies in Europe willing to
accommodate British demands are weakened if they conclude that we are bound for
the exit. He can't even know whether he will be there to do a negotiation. The
first stage in the sequence is the Tory party winning the next election, a
prospect that its behaviour makes daily less likely.

That won't stop his backbenchers demanding now and in detail which powers he
would try to bring back to Westminster and what opt-outs he would seek. They
will do so claiming to be friends of Mr Cameron, saying that he needs to refute
Lord Lawson when that grandee opines, from his home in France, that any
renegotiation will be a cosmetic sham. The real reason many if not most of them
want to see the prime minister's negotiating position is so that they can
condemn it as inadequate. We cannot fairly place all the blame for this on Mr
Cameron. John Major, a naturally consensual character working with a vanishing
majority, was tortured over Europe. Margaret Thatcher, a combative personality
with a landslide majority, was in part brought down over Europe.

One of the men who triggered her fall, Geoffrey Howe, writes elsewhere on these
pages. As he puts it, the Conservative party is suffering "a long nervous
breakdown" that would not be so serious if it were not a problem for the nation
as well. The Tory party has become so ungovernable that no putative alternative
leader, including Boris Johnson, who has zigged and zagged on the issue every
bit as much as Mr Cameron, could manage its self-destructive passions.

These have been further fuelled by members of the cabinet who have abandoned any
sense of collective responsibility - or even basic loyalty - to their leader. I
am told that Michael Gove and Philip Hammond were rebuked by the prime minister
for undermining his position by saying in public that they would vote to quit
the EU if a referendum were held now. The chastisement does not appear to have
been very effective. The defence secretary, who is making a habit of tossing
hand grenades at his supposed commander, then went on television to declare that
the legislation on gay marriage was a waste of time.

The Tory press also bears some responsibility. Conservative commentators express
shock and horror that their party is self-harming over Europe, and sigh with
dismay that it is doing so just when there is some tentatively better news on
the economy. Yet those very same papers have devoted many years and many acres
of space to feeding the obsession they now complain about.

Many have drawn a parallel between what is happening to David Cameron and what
became of John Major in the belief that there is no more wounding insult to a
Tory prime minister than to compare him with the man who tucked his shirt into
his underpants. Yet I am not sure that is quite right. However badly the Tories
were convulsed in the past, they just about held together. I think it is no
longer impossible to imagine that ultimately the Conservative party will
formally split over Europe - an outcome a referendum could actually make more
likely. At which point his spin doctors will no doubt issue a bulletin informing
us that David Cameron is "completely comatose".


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

In Focus: A BRIEF HISTORY OF EUROSCEPTICISM

BYLINE: ANDREW GIMSON

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 789 words


The history of British Euroscepticism is shot through with complexities,
contradictions and self-deceptions. As Hugo Young points out in This Blessed
Plot, his account of Britain's relations with Europe since the second world war:
"On no question of this period did more people in British public life change
their minds than on Europe." Many politicians wanted to believe, as did many
members of the public, that we would somehow be able to muddle through and find
a middle course: could we be involved in Europe without giving up the right to
run our own affairs? The six most significant versions of Euroscepticism were
represented by the following politicians:

1 Stick with the Commonwealth

The first great Eurosceptic (though the term had yet to be invented) was Hugh
Gaitskell, leader of the Labour party. His motives for deciding in 1962 to
oppose the Macmillan government's application to join what was then known as the
Common Market were mixed. But a vital factor for him, as for many others, was
the break this would represent with the Commonwealth. On the Tory side, this
pro-Commonwealth variety of Euroscepticism, according to which we were better
off remaining allied with our "kith and kin" in countries such as New Zealand,
was already represented by the Anti-Common Market League, whose president,
Victor Montagu, said we did not want to be subjugated "to a lot of frogs and
Huns". In a stirring speech to the Labour party conference in October 1962,
Gaitskell warned that membership of the Common Market would mean "the end of
Britain as an independent European state" and "the end of a thousand years of
history". In the event, Charles de Gaulle vetoed Britain's first application to
join, as well as a subsequent attempt made by the Labour government in 1967.

2 Parliamentary sovereignty

When Edward Heath led the Conservatives back to power in 1970, he was determined
to bring the third British application to join to a successful conclusion, and
Enoch Powell was determined to stop him. Powell had acquiesced in the two
earlier applications to join, but now emerged as a ferocious defender of
national sovereignty: so ferocious that he left the Tory party and advised
Tories to vote Labour. This manoeuvre failed: for although in 1975 Harold Wilson
held a referendum, which was the only way for him to deal with Labour divisions,
the British people voted to stay in Europe. Powell lamented: "It is the nation
that is dying, it is dying politically - or rather, perhaps, it is committing
suicide . . . to be a nation self-governed and self-taxed, living under its own
laws and accepting no external authority, meant nothing."

3 Handbag Euroscepticism

Margaret Thatcher campaigned for a "yes" vote in the 1975 referendum, and
although as prime minister from 1979 she demanded, and at length got, a rebate
on Britain's contribution to the EU budget, she also supported the Single
European Act: a major extension of European power carried out in the name of
free trade. So she was more of a Euro-pragmatist than her admirers care to
remember. But her implacable resistance to further extension of Brussels'
powers, encapsulated in the words "no, no, no", led at the end of 1990 to the
resignation of Sir Geoffrey Howe and to her downfall.

4 The Maastricht rebels

Thatcher's successor, John Major, was able to keep the European issue under
control for long enough to enable him to win an unexpected general election
victory in 1992. But he then found himself plunged into a debilitating war of
attrition with

Tory rebels who refused to accept the deal he had negotiated at Maastricht. This
included opt-outs from monetary union and the social chapter, which were
initially hailed as a triumph even by Eurosceptics. But very soon the
"bastards", as Major dubbed his Tory opponents, were making his life a complete
misery. Tory Eurosceptics such as Bill Cash and Nick Budgen had become virtually
impossible to placate.

5 Ukip and the

Referendum party

Fringe parties sprang up to campaign on the European issue. The UK Independence
Party, founded in 1993, was overshadowed at the 1997 general election by Sir
James Goldsmith's Referendum party, which won no seats but placed heavy pressure
on the Conservatives and Labour: a role more recently seized by Ukip under the
leadership of Nigel Farage, who has a gift for appealing to disappointed
patriots that none of the conventional parties has yet discovered how to match.

6 Thatcher's children

Many of the most gifted members of the 2010 intake of Tory MPs were inspired in
their youth by the way Thatcher took on Brussels. They now have the capacity to
make David Cameron's prime ministership every bit as tortured as Major's was.

ANDREW GIMSON IS A CONTRIBUTING EDITOR TO CONSERVATIVEHOME


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

In Focus: Out, out, out! Can anybody stem the Eurosceptic tide?: The
Conservative party, not for the first time, is tearing itself apart over Europe.
Eurosceptics have become more vocal and the PM seems unable to deal with the
growing rebellion. Daniel Boffey looks at the challenge to David Cameron and
talks to a leading Tory advocating a Europe exit

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1770 words


During one of the rare moments when Richard Ottaway MP has attracted any
attention at all, he was described as a "blameless and inconspicuous" Tory by a
sketchwriter. The MP for Croydon South, who is due to stand down at the next
election after more than 20 years' service, is not a stirrer or controversy
seeker. He chairs the foreign affairs select committee and has a mild attachment
to the EU because of the economic benefits he believes it brings, but his views
seldom make news.

So it was a startling moment when, as Ottaway ended a short address during the
Queen's speech debate last week, he was laughed at and almost jeered by his
colleagues. He had made the mistake of suggesting that since he too wanted
reform of the EU, he could hardly be described as a Europhile. After the
kangaroo court of Eurosceptics on the Tory benches gave their mocking verdict,
Ottaway told the Commons, flushed and embarrassed: "That sort of contemptuous
laugh does no good to the debate whatever."

Ottaway was suffering the kind of trashing that many minorities have
experienced. And Tories even mildly sympathetic to the case for Britain's
membership of the EU are in danger of becoming just that: a minority. One Tory
MP has suggested that Europhilia on his party's backbenches was now "the love
that dare not speak its name".

The parliamentary party's Europhile group, European Mainstream, has just 50
members, dwarfed by the number of antis. In less than two years, their influence
within the party has been utterly undermined.

In September 2011 David Cameron told the Commons at prime minister's questions
that he could not see the case for an in-out referendum. It was ruled out:
Britain had had its say in 1975. Nothing doing.

But in the same month George Eustice MP, a one-time Ukip member who also stood
in as Cameron's press spokesman during his leadership campaign, established a
new Eurosceptic group of Tory MPs demanding a "new relationship" with the EU.

By May last year the editor of the activist website ConservativeHome, Tim
Montgomerie, who is now comment editor at Rupert Murdoch's Times newspaper,
predicted a Eurosceptic takeover was under way. Its time would come.

Then in June, John Baron, the MP for Basildon and Billericay, delivered a letter
to the prime minister signed by 100 MPs, calling on him to place on the statute
book "by the next general election a commitment to hold a referendum on the
nature of our relationship with the EU within the next parliament".

By January this year Cameron was announcing that he would offer such an in-out
referendum should he win the next general election because the people should
have their say - but only after he had secured some changes and could offer them
a reformed European Union as an alternative to withdrawal. He refused to
countenance legislation in the current parliament to guarantee that such a
referendum would take place. Why would he, when his Lib Dem coalition partners
would never sign up to it?

Geoffrey Howe, the former chancellor, writing today in the Observer (Comment,
page 33), puts it well: "Having previously opposed the introduction of
legislation in this parliament to hold a referendum in the next one, the prime
minister suddenly allowed a free vote among backbenchers, with the government
abstaining, on the extraordinary basis that the party had no policy on the
issue.

"Then, once more than 100 backbenchers had voted for such a referendum, he
immediately insisted that all Conservative MPs, whatever their view, should from
now on support the proposal, on a three-line whip, whereas only the day before
they could take any position they chose.

"This saga looks more like the politics of the French Fourth Republic than the
serious practice of government."

The Benny Hill-style parliamentary runaround has been given added drama by the
interventions of education secretary Michael Gove and defence secretary Philip
Hammond, leadership hopefuls both, who have suggested that if there were a
referendum tomorrow, they would vote to leave the EU.

Nigel Lawson, in Montgomerie's comment pages in the Times, said no matter what
happened he believed we were better off out.

The extraordinary upping of the ante on the Europe question can only be
understood in the context of a 2010 intake of MPs who were schooled in
Eurosceptic politics under the leadership of Michael Howard and the save the £
campaigns of William Hague. Those MPs have been further radicalised by the euro
crisis and the rise of the Ukip threat. So what now?

Sitting in his Commons office in Portcullis House, Baron, the man behind the
pivotal letter of the summer of 2012, was in good spirits on Thursday. He had
endured some rough and tumble with the BBC's Andrew Neil earlier in the day, but
he says he quite enjoyed it. His wife maybe not so much: "She can't see the back
of me. I get out of bed in the morning, she rolls over, turns on the radio and
I'm on the radio," he chortles.

The prime minister may be feeling the same way. Not content with filing his
letter last year, it was Baron who was behind the move to force a vote
condemning the Queen's speech for the lack of referendum legislation.

The prime minister's aides insist Cameron was "very relaxed" about that vote.
Maybe. Senior backbenchers have said that at the last meeting of the 1922
Committee of backbenchers a series of members appeared to have been encouraged
by the leadership to stand up and call for unity.

Baron won't comment on all that. A former captain of the Royal Regiment of
Fusiliers, he regards himself, still, as a loyalist. "We are reinforcing the
prime minister's direction of travel," he says, with no little mischief. "It's
his direction of travel, as I understand it." He chuckles.

Baron, 53, who says he has been "a Eurosceptic all my thinking life", would not
have joined the European Community if he had been old enough to vote on it and
dislikes the idea of ever closer political union.

"The British people are not into this vision thing," he says. "We have a proud
history. For reasons different to those on the continent, we perhaps have a bit
more confidence in ourselves, I don't know. But we didn't join for ever closer
political union.

"We want friendly terms, we want to co-operate on what is important. We want
good trade relationships, and wish the EU all the best, but we are going to balk
at ever closer political union."

Does he, as a loyalist, have qualms about upsetting the prime minister? "None
whatsoever," he shoots back. "What I am trying to do is nudge the party closer
to the electorate. That's what we have done, actually. A week is a long time in
politics. A week ago we didn't have party support for any legislation, and a
week ago we had no sight of a bill. Now we have got both.

"And that is progress, in my view because it more closely follows what the
electorate wants."

Recent polls show that those who want the UK to leave the EU and those who want
the country to stay in are evenly matched. An Opinium/Observer poll published
today suggests that more than two-thirds of voters (67%) want Cameron to "listen
and pay more attention" to the views of his backbenchers.

But, for all that, the history books show that the electorate, when it comes to
the crunch, dislikes disunity in a party. Baron received a voicemail message on
his office phone on Thursday morning from a party member saying he respected the
MP's position but adding: "This has got to stop."

And the party isn't just split between those who want the country to stay in and
those who want to get out. They are split about the number of referendums
needed, the substance of reforms the prime minister should seek before a
referendum, the desirability or otherwise of legislation ensuring that there
will be a referendum, and over many other arcane points that only a Conservative
party which was fixated on Europe could even consider as politically
significant.

So what would convince Baron to vote for the UK to stay in the EU? "Instead of
getting bogged down in detail, I say: let's see what he comes back with," he
says. "But, you know, he is going to be up against it. Having said that, I wish
him well."

Meanwhile, party grandees such as Lord Howe look on and despair. In comments
that will chill Cameron's aides, Howe writes today: "Sadly, by making it clear
in January that he opposes the current terms of UK membership of the EU, the
prime minister has opened a Pandora's box politically and seems to be losing
control of his party in the process.

"The ratchet-effect of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the Conservative
leadership is in effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone Ukip,
having allowed deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party."

Howe's main concern is that the Tory party is inching, as its "long nervous
breakdown" comes to a conclusion, towards having withdrawal from the EU as a
manifesto pledge.

"The risk now is that, if it loses the next general election - a far from
negligible possibility - the Conservative party will move to a position of
simply opposing Britain's continued membership, with or without a referendum,"
he writes.

These are ominous words for Tory MPs such as Margot James, a rising star in the
party, one of those on Cameron's A-list of parliamentary candidates in 2010 who
were expected to deliver modern thinking to the party

"Nigel Lawson has asserted that the costs of the EU membership outweigh the
benefits but where is the evidence?" she asks.

Howe today tries to offer a counterweight to the anti-EU cause. It remains to be
seen if others will step up to the plate, risk the scorn of the antis, and make
the case too.

***

CAMERON ON THE EU

October 2010: "The key to a referendum is this: Are we transferring powers. If
yes, a referendum. If not, no referendum."

October 2011: "It's not the right time, at this moment of economic crisis, to
launch legislation that includes an in-out referendum. This is not the time to
argue about walking away."

October 2012: "I've always opposed the straight in-out referendum in that I'm
neither in favour of out - leaving altogether - nor am I satisfied with the
status quo. I want to change the status quo. We've always said that, when we've
achieved that fresh settlement, it needs consent, either at a referendum or a
general election."

January 2013: "We will give the British people a referendum with a very simple
in-or-out choice to stay in the EU on these new terms; or come out altogether.
It will be an in-out referendum."

May 2013: "We've got a chance to legislate for it [an in-out referendum] in
parliament and it's now up to the other parties what they're going to do."


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

Front: Lord Howe: Tory party is 'out of control' over Europe: Former chancellor
accuses Cameron: Euroscepticism 'infecting party soul'

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey, Policy Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words


Lord Howe, the former Conservative chancellor who triggered the downfall of
Margaret Thatcher, has launched a scathing attack on the prime minister,
accusing him of running scared of his backbenchers and endangering Britain's
future in Europe.

The Tory grandee says David Cameron has opened a Pandora's box by opposing the
current terms of the UK's membership of the European Union and now appears to be
losing control of his party. The prime minister's actions, Howe writes in the
Observer today, have turned an internal Tory problem into a national one.

In a highly significant intervention over Britain's future, Howe laments the
"new, almost farcical" level of debate over Europe in the Tory party, and says
that Labour and the Liberal Democrats may need to bear the burden of retrieving
the situation. Howe, Thatcher's longest-serving cabinet minister, whose
resignation speech in 1990 is widely considered to have precipitated the then
prime minister's downfall, writes: "Sadly, by making it clear in January that he
opposes the current terms of UK membership of the EU, the prime minister has
opened a Pandora's box politically and seems to be losing control of his party
in the process.

"The ratchet-effect of Euroscepticism has now gone so far that the Conservative
leadership is in effect running scared of its own backbenchers, let alone Ukip,
having allowed deep anti-Europeanism to infect the very soul of the party."

Howe, who was also a former foreign secretary and deputy prime minister under
the late Baroness Thatcher, adds that the events of recent days, in which the
prime minister has been forced to offer more and more to satisfy his Eurosceptic
MPs, were "more like the politics of the French Fourth Republic than the serious
practice of government".

Citing the intervention of President Obama, who last week championed reform of
the EU over Britain's exit, Howe laments: "The Conservative party now needs a US
president to tell it what it once had the confidence to proclaim as common sense
itself."

Howe's savage attack on the prime minister's leadership and the actions of his
party follows the successful attempt by Eurosceptic backbenchers to bounce the
prime minister into the publication last week of a draft referendum bill on EU
membership.

Cameron had already been forced in January, against his stated will, to promise
an in-out referendum before 2017, but the prime minister's backbenchers have
since been demanding further assurances in the form of legislation. Eurosceptic
Tory backbenchers have been energised by Ukip's success in the recent local
elections, and a huge rise in national polls.

A new Opinium/Observer poll has Ukip attracting 20% of the vote, with Labour on
37%, the Conservatives on 27% and the Liberal Democrats down to 7%.

Howe states that the risk for the Conservative party, as Europe rises ever
further up its internal agenda, is that it loses the next general election and
moves to a position of "simply opposing Britain's continued membership, with or
without a referendum".

In stark contrast to the view of his friend and former cabinet colleague Lord
Lawson, who wrote recently that Britain should leave the EU, Howe believes that
the UK is unlikely to hold anything like the position of power to which it
aspires without the vehicle of the EU, unless the country was to join the United
States. "Leaving the union would, by contrast in my view, be a tragic expression
of our shrinking influence and role in the world - and the humbling of our
ambitions, already sorely tested by the current crisis, to remain a serious
political or economic player on the global stage."

Describing a withdrawal from the European Union as a "very dangerous choice
indeed", the peer says Britons have hugely benefited from greater competition,
lower prices and wider choice, due to membership of the EU.

Howe adds that much of the UK's inward investment depends on easy access to the
£ 11 trillion EU economy. He writes: "Does anyone think that the UK's revival as
a motor car manufacturing nation is based on the appeal of the British market
alone to foreign investors?"

In a withering assessment of his party's long-standing preoccupation with
Brussels, he adds: "This week has shown that the Conservative party's long
nervous breakdown over Europe continues, and what is essentially a Tory problem
is now, once again, becoming a national problem, too."

He continues: "A number of serious mistakes have been made but the situation is
not irretrievable. What is needed is a mixture of clear thinking, strong
leadership and an overriding concern for the national interest - not party
management or advantage.

"If the Conservative party is losing its head, a heavy responsibility now rests
with Labour and the Liberal Democrats."

Can anybody stem the Eurosceptic tide?

In Focus, 26-27; Geoffrey Howe: A new, farcical low 33; Andrew Rawnsley 35

Observer Comment 34


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

National: Senior Tory denies describing party activists as 'swivel-eyed loons'

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey, Barry Neild and Nick Watt

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 462 words


The co-chairman of the Conservatives has denied describing party activists as
"swivel-eyed loons" after rumours circulated on the internet that he was the
source for remarks widely published over the weekend.

Lord Feldman said he was taking legal advice after posts on Twitter implied he
was the senior Tory quoted anonymously in several national newspapers. The
mystery Tory made the remarks at a party dinner event - allegedly in earshot of
journalists - after being asked about the decision of 116 party MPs to defy the
prime minister and vote in favour of an amendment regretting the absence of an
EU referendum in the Queen's speech.

The unnamed figure is reported as saying: "It's fine. There's really no problem.
The MPs just have to do it because the associations tell them to, and the
associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons." In a statement Feldman, who was a
friend of David Cameron at Oxford University, said: "There is speculation on the
internet and on Twitter that the senior Conservative party figure claimed to
have made derogatory comments by the Times and the Telegraph is me.

"This is completely untrue. I am very disappointed by the behaviour of the
journalists involved, who have allowed rumour and innuendo to take hold by not
putting these allegations to me before publication. I am taking legal advice."

The remarks threaten to inflame the incendiary row between Conservative
grassroots and Cameron's inner circle, who are criticised as being "out of
touch". Feldman was at a dinner of the Conservative Friends of Pakistan on
Wednesday at the Intercontinetal hotel in Westminster where the remarks were
said to have been made. However, those sitting near him are said by sources
close to Feldman to be willing to publicly deny hearing anything similar to the
comments reported.

The Conservative party last night went on the attack suggesting similarities
between the Twitter rumours around Feldman and the defamatory claims wrongly
connecting former party treasurer Lord McAlpine to child abuse allegations.

James Kirkup, the Telegraph journalist who reported the remarks, tweeted: "I
have seen Lord Feldman's statement. I stand by my story. Nothing more to say
beyond this."

Those posting comments on the Conservative Home blog yesterday were unforgiving.
Sandy Jamieson wrote: "We activists are all 'mad, swivel-eyed loons'. Of course
we are - we elected David Cameron as leader."

A Downing Street spokesman said: "The prime minister supports Lord Feldman's
position. It is categorically untrue that anyone in Downing Street made the
comments about the Conservative party associations and activists reported in the
Times and the Telegraph."

Captions:

Lord Feldman has said he is taking legal advice over the allegation, which
circulated

on the internet.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 19, 2013

National: Top Tory denies 'swivel-eyed loons' remark about activists:
Co-chairman Lord Feldman rebuts claims he is unnamed official quoted in news
reports

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey, Barry Neild and Nick Watt

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 681 words


The co-chairman of the Conservatives has denied describing party activists as
"swivel-eyed loons" after rumours circulated on the internet that he was the
source for remarks widely published over the weekend.

Lord Feldman said he was taking legal advice after posts on Twitter implied he
was the senior Tory quoted anonymously in several national newspapers. The
mystery Tory made the remarks at a party dinner event - allegedly in earshot of
journalists - after being asked about the decision of 116 party MPs to defy the
prime minister and vote in favour of an amendment regretting the absence of an
EU referendum in the Queen's speech.

The unnamed figure is reported as saying: "It's fine. There's really no problem.
The MPs just have to do it because the associations tell them to, and the
associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons."

In a statement Feldman, who was a friend of David Cameron at Oxford University,
said: "There is speculation on the internet and on Twitter that the senior
Conservative party figure claimed to have made derogatory comments by the Times
and the Telegraph is me.

"This is completely untrue. I would like to make it quite clear that I did not
nor have ever described our associations in this way or in any similar manner.
Nor do these alleged comments represent my view of our activists. On the
contrary in the last eight years of working for the party, I have found them to
be hard-working, committed and reasonable people. They are without question the
backbone of the party. I am very disappointed by the behaviour of the
journalists involved, who have allowed rumour and innuendo to take hold by not
putting these allegations to me before publication. I am taking legal advice."

The remarks threaten to inflame the incendiary row between Conservative
grassroots and Cameron's inner circle, who are criticised as being "out of
touch". Feldman was at a dinner of the Conservative Friends of Pakistan on
Wednesday at the Intercontinetal hotel in Westminster where the remarks were
said to have been made. However, those sitting near him are said by sources
close to Feldman to be willing to publicly deny hearing anything similar to the
comments reported.

The Conservative party last night went on the attack suggesting similarities
between the Twitter rumours around Feldman and the defamatory claims wrongly
connecting former party treasurer Lord McAlpine to child abuse allegations.The
case of former chief whip Andrew Mitchell, who is contesting claims that he
called police officers at the gates of Downing Street "plebs", was also cited.

Grant Shapps, the co-chairman of the Conservative party, said: "He [Feldman]
works very closely with the party volunteers. I believe him when he says that he
did not say that about our fantastic volunteers," he told the BBC. "We have seen
these rumours flying around the internet, we have seen it with Lord McAlpine and
Andrew Mitchell, both of whom were later in the clear."

James Kirkup, the Telegraph journalist who reported the remarks, tweeted: "I
have seen Lord Feldman's statement. I stand by my story."

Mitchell, now on the backbenches, appeared on Sky News to offer his support. He
said: "It looks to me tonight as if there's a full-on media storm staring on all
of this and we should bear in mind that the man at the centre of it, Lord
Feldman, says it is untrue and if Lord Feldman says it is untrue then I believe
him. We should avoid a rush to judgment."

Those posting comments on the Conservative Home blog yesterday were unforgiving.
Sandy Jamieson wrote: "We activists are all 'mad, swivel-eyed loons'. Of course
we are - we elected David Cameron as leader."

A Downing Street spokesman said: "It is categorically untrue that anyone in
Downing Street made the comments about the Conservative party associations and
activists reported in the Times and the Telegraph."

Captions:

Lord Feldman attending the press night of a play in the West End, London, with
his wife, Gabrielle Gourgey. Photograph by Alan Davidson/Picture Library

Andrew Mitchell went on Sky News last night to offer Lord Feldman his support.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 12, 2013

National: Cameron acts to stem party rebellion on EU referendum: Ministers told
to abstain during Eurosceptic move to condemn Queen's speech

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey, Policy Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 578 words


David Cameron has ordered his ministers to abstain in a pivotal Commons vote on
a future EU referendum next week, in a blow to his Eurosceptic colleagues.

Tory backbenchers will force a vote on Wednesday condemning the Queen's speech
for failing to include legislation committing the country to an in/out
referendum. Sources close to the prime minister last week suggested he was
"relaxed" about the vote and could even give all his MPs a free vote.

However, over the weekend it emerged that he will not allow Eurosceptic
ministers, such as work and pensions secretary Iain Duncan Smith and the
environment secretary Owen Paterson, to vote on the amendment, which in effect
attacks their own legislative plans. Instead a free vote has only been granted
to backbench MPs and parliamentary private secretaries - the senior backbenchers
who act as ministerial aides.

Despite Cameron's decision, there is growing confidence among Tory MPs that he
will ultimately break coalition ranks and deliver the legislation his
backbenchers are demanding. They believe that the public will only trust
Cameron's promise of a 2017 referendum if there is a law to back it up.

By the end of Friday, more than 50 MPs had signed up to the amendment, and
sources said that the prime minister had offered no criticism to those behind
the move. "This could offer political cover. It is a situation not of his making
and it gives him the chance to say to the Liberal Democrats that he needs to
introduce this legislation. Remember gay marriage wasn't in the coalition
agreement either," the source said.

John Baron, the Tory MP for Basildon and Billericay, who tabled the amendment,
said he had forced the vote because he believed "it is the right thing to do for
the country". He said: "The EU is a fundamentally different animal to what we
signed up to in 1973 and 1975, and the answer to the eurozone crisis in European
capitals is more Europe, more economic and political harmonisation. That is not
what we signed up to. People may want that, they might not. But people should
have a choice."

Baron said that legislation committing politicians to the referendum was crucial
to restore trust. "We genuinely believe that our commitment on Europe has to be
both credible and believable. It's credible because we have an out option in the
referendum but it is not yet believable.

"Legislation would make it more believable than an election manifesto pledge. We
underestimate the extent to which the public mistrust politicians when they see
them making promises on matters European. And we have to address that public
mistrust."

Nick de Bois, the Tory MP for North Enfield, who has also signed the amendment,
said that an advantage of introducing legislation to potentially guarantee a
referendum is that it would flush out the positions of Labour and the Liberal
Democrats. "It is about time they made their positions clear in the Commons on
whether they will give the British people a referendum or not," he said.

The rebellious backbenchers will introduce a private member's bill to introduce
legislation enabling the referendum, but they hope a government bill will
materialise in due course.

Ed Milibandsaid that his party did not believe a referendum should go ahead. "It
is wrong now to commit to an in/out referendum and have four years of
uncertainty and a 'closed for business' sign above our country."

Captions:

At least 50 MPs are said to have signed up to the amendment to the Queen's
speech.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 28, 2013

THE EMAILS: The party that came in from the fringe: why Ukip scares Tories:
Nigel Farage's ragtag army of anti-Europeans has never won a council seat in
Somerset, yet the Conservatives there - and up and down the country - fear his
candidates will tip the balance of power at the polls on Thursday. But is this a
credible alternative to traditional left-right divides, or a mishmash of
mavericks, eccentrics and political misfits?: WHAT THE CANDIDATES SAY

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey POLICY EDITOR

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2181 words


Landing on doormats across Somerset in recent weeks has been a Tory election
leaflet the like of which local people have never seen before: "A vote for Ukip
is a vote for the Lib Dems. Ukip has no plans or policies for Somerset. Only the
Conservatives can deliver an In/Out referendum by 2017."

The wide fields and market towns of this part of the country have changed
political masters six times since the 1970s, with the Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats sharing the county council spoils.

Labour has traditionally struggled to find a foothold in the levels, but Nigel
Farage's UK Independence party has never even won a council seat, attracted more
than a few hundred votes in any electoral ward, nor looked particularly likely
to make any such a breakthrough.

Yet the Tory attack dogs behind the election flier believe things are changing
here, and elsewhere, and they are not waiting for Ukip to prove them right.
Something is bubbling under the surface and the ragtag platoon of Ukip activists
in Somerset say they feel it too.

"I have said many, many times I wouldn't count any chickens", says Dorothy
Baker, the 77-year-old retired teacher and grandmother-of-six who is part
election generalissimo and part self-confessed mother hen to the "'Kippers" of
Somerset. "But," Baker says, patting her tummy, "down here something is saying
'Goodness'.

"It is quite humbling really. The message is finally getting across that what we
are saying is true. I believe this country has been given away to a foreign
power and I believe we should be fighting to get it back. That's Ukip's
message."

The party, founded in 1993 in opposition to the Maastricht treaty, will have
candidates in 80% of the seats in Somerset's local election on Thursday,
compared with just 10% in 2009. Nationally, it will field 1,734 candidates -
more than three times the 560 candidates who stood three years ago, and more
than the Liberal Democrats are putting up this year.

The rapid scaling up of the party has led Professor John Curtice, a leading
political scientist, to claim that Ukip presents the "most serious fourth party
incursion" into English electoral politics since the second world war.
Certainly, recent statistics have sent a shiver down the collective spine of
strategists at Conservative Campaign Headquarters.

In November last year, in a parliamentary by-election in Corby, Ukip attracted
14% of the vote, in what was its best ever result. Two weeks later it achieved
22% in Rotherham. In March, Ukip pushed the Conservatives into third place in
the Eastleigh by-election after attracting 28% of the vote, with many supporters
claiming they could have gone one better and beaten the Liberal Democrats to
attain their first Commons seat if they had been more organised in getting their
postal vote out.

It is a remarkable turnaround for a party that has bumbled along for 20 years,
often appearing to be on the verge of disbanding and at times, notably under the
leadership of the TV host Robert Kilroy-Silk, verging on the ridiculous. So who
is voting for them - and why?

The attraction, focus groups tell the main parties, is not just that Ukip is
anti-EU, but that it isn't the Tories, Labour or the Liberal Democrats. A
significant number of its voters, according to an analysis by Dr Robert Ford,
from the University of Manchester, are former Tories. In 2009 roughly two in 10
Ukip voters had voted Conservative in the previous election. Now it is four in
10. But that still means less than half of Ukip's support is from former
Conservative supporters. A further quarter has come from Labour and Liberal
Democrats, according to Ford.

Anger over immigration, anxiety about national identity, hostility to the EU and
a deep disaffection with "politics as usual", themes that cut across traditional
party dividing lines, have enabled the party to recruit voters outside the small
pool of white, middle-class reactionaries who have traditionally found a home
with the party. A lot of them now look like Labour voters, says Ford. Farage's
simple message to this burgeoning and angry group was caught succinctly by the
title of his recent flesh-pressing UK "Commonsense tour". He is on their side,
he insists, playing down the libertarian, anti-Brussels, anti-regulation string
to his party when it suits him.

But it is in this broad but loose alliance that there is danger to the Ukip
brand.

After a lunch in Westminster with a packed room of lobby journalists last week,
Farage was keen to have a few drinks and was full of bonhomie, only to be
shunned by abstemious hacks. He decided to catch the 5pm Eurostar back to
Brussels. The hard-drinking, twice-married former stockbroker is an affable
figure whom many voters warm to, even if journalists can't find time for a drink
with him on a busy news day.

But the few other Ukip characters who find themselves in the public eye tend to
be those plucked out by the media and the party's political opponents for their
colourful and often distasteful views. Last week, in the latest of a long line
of similar embarrassing revelations, Anne-Marie Crampton, a local election
candidate in East Sussex, was suspended after reportedly posting antisemitic
comments on a conspiracy theory website, including the claim that the second
world war was "engineered by a Zionist". She claims her computer was hacked
into.

Back in Somerset, the Twitter account of the vice-chairman of Yeovil Ukip,
Godfrey Davey, a candidate in Thursday's election, doesn't bear much scrutiny.
"At the rate this government is going we will end up with civil war it will be
us or the imegrants [sic]", he writes. "Every time you give sodomites an inch
they want a mile,no pun,pedeophilea here we come [sic]", he adds. He tells a
Twitter account promoting Rosetta Stone linguistics software, "If you speak
English,YOU DO NOT NEED ANY OTHER LANGUAGE."

It is reported that a number of the Ukip candidates for this week's election are
secretly former BNP activists. Yet the Tories and the rest have learned that,
the cranks apart, Ukip supporters cannot be written off any longer, as the prime
minister once famously did, as a bunch of "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists". Ukip will attract some unseemly elements, and that is because its
strength is also its biggest weakness - it has become all things to all men and
women.

Laura Bailhache, a 31-year-old solicitor and Oxford graduate, is standing for
Ukip in Taunton Deane. She admits that her political allegiance is unusual
within her peer group and is refreshingly honest that she doesn't really want to
be elected all that much. But Bailhache says the core concerns that Ukip taps
into are widely held and she wants to give people with Ukip sympathies the
opportunity to signal their support by voting for her. There is some evidence
that, on top of the disaffected white Labour vote and reactionary lower middle
classes, a third group - those who simply don't vote - are having their heads
turned. "Amongst people my age the reaction (to joining Ukip) has been mixed,"
Bailhache said. "A few people have said to be careful, it is a fringe party, and
I think they have got concerns about the racism sticker.

"But I don't think that applied to Ukip at all. I don't think taking control of
immigration is racism. But from the other of my friends, more widely, they have
just been interested. The stronger thrust from people of my age group is simply
not to vote and get involved. If you haven't put your name to any of these
people messing it up, at least you can't be blamed.

"But Ukip does seem to be gaining momentum."

So with these various strands of support, is Ukip an unstoppable force?

Ford and Dr Matthew Goodwin, his co-author on a book on Ukip due out early next
year, Revolt on the Right, believe not. The incoherence within the party will
hold it back, they say. "Ukip have got a real problem," said Goodwin. "Farage
has turned it into a party with a broad appeal. A lot of their support now looks
like Labour voters and they have the traditional, relatively affluent but
insecure, lower middle-class people. But what now? I don't think Ukip actually
knows what it wants to be."

Certainly the email conversation revealed today between Godfrey Bloom, the Ukip
MEP, and the party's treasurer Stuart Wheeler, a former Tory donor, illustrates
an awareness within the leadership of this central problem. The party has no
policies to speak of, Bloom admits, and the intrinsic lack of cogency within the
party means they are unable to solve that problem.

"As Ukip is a very broad church of membership, I won a Labour seat, we will have
many different views on policy", Bloom writes. "Having worked on the defence
paper for over one year, it would appear Ukip has more military and naval
experts than we have soldiers. Most of them do not agree with each other. It is
like herding cats."

Bloom, MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, adds: "The charm and frustration of
Ukip is we have doctors who fancy themselves as tax experts, painters and
decorators who know all about strategic defence issues, and branch chairmen,
retired dentists, who understand the most intricate political solutions for the
nation.

"Our website will have no policies at all on there for 10 years if we adopt a
neo-Byzantine approach to formulating them. This means some quite senior party
members are going to have to stable their hobby horses." The party should "buy"
some policies "off the shelf" from thinktanks, Bloom suggests; why "reinvent the
wheel"?

The email also illustrates how the tensions between the old stalwarts of the
party and the new membership are coming to the fore. Bloom writes: "We are also
attracting new members who bring main party baggage. Focus groups, quotas, even
political correctness. We must be wary of listening to these siren voices. We
did not get where we are today by following, but leading."

So, Ukip is a party unable to agree on policy, split on ideological grounds, but
also divided generationally, with the old stalwarts rejecting the tools of
modern politics. Surely all this turmoil and incoherence must be a terrible
concern to Farage? No, actually, says one senior source. To come to that
conclusion would be to misunderstand what Farage and others at the top of the
party want from the party, the source adds. "There is no plan for electoral
success and that is because Nigel Farage doesn't want to go to Westminster," the
source said.

"He likes his life in Brussels, where he feels he is a powerful man or at least
he has power because he can stand up and scream and shout. He wants to continue
this role.

"The strategy is to be a pressure group and maintain his position in the
European parliament which gives him power and media coverage.

"Farage is supported in this strategy by Stuart Wheeler, who wants to use Ukip
as a pressure group to destroy Cameron, because Cameron sacked him from the
party and he will never forgive him for this. The aim is to get as many votes as
possible so Ukip is a threat and manipulate the agenda.

"What they are really trying to do is drive the agenda of the country."

The email conversation revealed today between Godfrey Bloom, the Ukip MEP
(pictured below), and party treasurer Stuart Wheeler:

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

It would appear Ukip has more military and naval experts than we have soldiers.
Most of them do not agree with each other. It is like herding cats.

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

We are also attracting new members who bring main party 'baggage'. Focus groups,
quotas, even political correctness. We must be wary of listening to these siren
voices. We did not get where we are today by following, but leading.

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

We do not have the resources to write serious papers on major subjects, why
reinvent the wheel? Why not buy policy 'off the shelf', where it is close to our
own small government, low tax, libertarian position.

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

Now here's the rub. My experience thus far is that as soon as more than 2 people
get in a room progress completely stops. Even where we have experts of our own
they disagree.

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

The charm and frustration of Ukip is we have doctors who fancy themselves as tax
experts, painters and decorators who know all about strategic defence issues,
and branch chairmen, retired dentists, who understand the most intricate
political solutions for the nation.

From Stuart Wheeler

Sent 25 April 2013 13:38

To Godfrey Bloom

Dear Godfrey, I could not agree more that some people will have to get off their
hobby-horses.

Captions:

Laura Bailhache, 31,

a Ukip candidate and solicitor from Taunton,

in front of the town's Castle hotel. Apex

Dorothy Baker, 77, retired teacher, Ukip candidate for Taunton East

Martin Howard, 28, businessman,

Ukip candidate for

Frome North

Godfrey Davey, 68,

retired,

Ukip candidate for

Yeovil East


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 28, 2013

National: Politics: The party that came in from the fringe: why Ukip scares
Tories: Nigel Farage's ragtag army of anti-Europeans has never won a council
seat in Somerset, yet local Conservatives fear his candidates will tip the
balance of power at the polls there on Thursday - and possibly across the
country. But is the party a credible alternative to left-right divides, or just
a mishmash of mavericks, eccentrics and political misfits?

BYLINE: Daniel Boffey, POLICY EDITOR

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2184 words


Landing on doormats across Somerset in recent weeks has been a Tory election
leaflet the like of which local people have never seen before: "A vote for Ukip
is a vote for the Lib Dems. Ukip has no plans or policies for Somerset. Only the
Conservatives can deliver an In/Out referendum by 2017."

The wide fields and market towns of this part of the country have changed
political masters six times since the 1970s, with the Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats sharing the county council spoils.

Labour has traditionally struggled to find a foothold in the levels, but Nigel
Farage's UK Independence party has never even won a council seat, attracted more
than a few hundred votes in any electoral ward, nor looked particularly likely
to make any such a breakthrough.

Yet the Tory attack dogs behind the election flier believe things are changing
here, and elsewhere, and they are not waiting for Ukip to prove them right.
Something is bubbling under the surface and the ragtag platoon of Ukip activists
in Somerset say they feel it too.

"I have said many, many times I wouldn't count any chickens", says Dorothy
Baker, the 77-year-old retired teacher and grandmother-of-six who is part
election generalissimo and part self-confessed mother hen to the "'Kippers" of
Somerset. "But," Baker says, patting her tummy, "down here something is saying
'Goodness'.

"It is quite humbling really. The message is finally getting across that what we
are saying is true. I believe this country has been given away to a foreign
power and I believe we should be fighting to get it back. That's Ukip's
message."

The party, founded in 1993 in opposition to the Maastricht treaty, will have
candidates in 80% of the seats in Somerset's local election on Thursday,
compared with just 10% in 2009. Nationally, it will field 1,734 candidates -
more than three times the 560 candidates who stood three years ago, and more
than the Liberal Democrats are putting up this year.

The rapid scaling up of the party has led Professor John Curtice, a leading
political scientist, to claim that Ukip presents the "most serious fourth party
incursion" into English electoral politics since the second world war.
Certainly, recent statistics have sent a shiver down the collective spine of
strategists at Conservative Campaign Headquarters.

In November last year, in a parliamentary by-election in Corby, Ukip attracted
14% of the vote, in what was its best ever result. Two weeks later it achieved
22% in Rotherham. In March, Ukip pushed the Conservatives into third place in
the Eastleigh by-election after attracting 28% of the vote, with many supporters
claiming they could have gone one better and beaten the Liberal Democrats to
attain their first Commons seat if they had been more organised in getting their
postal vote out.

It is a remarkable turnaround for a party that has bumbled along for 20 years,
often appearing to be on the verge of disbanding and at times, notably under the
leadership of the TV host Robert Kilroy-Silk, verging on the ridiculous. So who
is voting for them - and why?

The attraction, focus groups tell the main parties, is not just that Ukip is
anti-EU, but that it isn't the Tories, Labour or the Liberal Democrats. A
significant number of its voters, according to an analysis by Dr Robert Ford,
from the University of Manchester, are former Tories. In 2009 roughly two in 10
Ukip voters had voted Conservative in the previous election. Now it is four in
10. But that still means less than half of Ukip's support is from former
Conservative supporters. A further quarter has come from Labour and Liberal
Democrats, according to Ford.

Anger over immigration, anxiety about national identity, hostility to the EU and
a deep disaffection with "politics as usual", themes that cut across traditional
party dividing lines, have enabled the party to recruit voters outside the small
pool of white, middle-class reactionaries who have traditionally found a home
with the party. A lot of them now look like Labour voters, says Ford. Farage's
simple message to this burgeoning and angry group was caught succinctly by the
title of his recent flesh-pressing UK "Commonsense tour". He is on their side,
he insists, playing down the libertarian, anti-Brussels, anti-regulation string
to his party when it suits him.

But it is in this broad but loose alliance that there is danger to the Ukip
brand.

After a lunch in Westminster with a packed room of lobby journalists last week,
Farage was keen to have a few drinks and was full of bonhomie, only to be
shunned by abstemious hacks. He decided to catch the 5pm Eurostar back to
Brussels. The hard-drinking, twice-married former stockbroker is an affable
figure whom many voters warm to, even if journalists can't find time for a drink
with him on a busy news day.

But the few other Ukip characters who find themselves in the public eye tend to
be those plucked out by the media and the party's political opponents for their
colourful and often distasteful views. Last week, in the latest of a long line
of similar embarrassing revelations, Anne-Marie Crampton, a local election
candidate in East Sussex, was suspended after reportedly posting antisemitic
comments on a conspiracy theory website, including the claim that the second
world war was "engineered by a Zionist". She claims her computer was hacked
into.

Back in Somerset, the Twitter account of the vice-chairman of Yeovil Ukip,
Godfrey Davey, a candidate in Thursday's election, doesn't bear much scrutiny.
"At the rate this government is going we will end up with civil war it will be
us or the imegrants [sic]", he writes. "Every time you give sodomites an inch
they want a mile,no pun,pedeophilea here we come [sic]", he adds. He tells a
Twitter account promoting Rosetta Stone linguistics software, "If you speak
English,YOU DO NOT NEED ANY OTHER LANGUAGE."

It is reported that a number of the Ukip candidates for this week's election are
secretly former BNP activists. Yet the Tories and the rest have learned that,
the cranks apart, Ukip supporters cannot be written off any longer, as the prime
minister once famously did, as a bunch of "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists". Ukip will attract some unseemly elements, and that is because its
strength is also its biggest weakness - it has become all things to all men and
women.

Laura Bailhache, a 31-year-old solicitor and Oxford graduate, is standing for
Ukip in Taunton Deane. She admits that her political allegiance is unusual
within her peer group and is refreshingly honest that she doesn't really want to
be elected all that much. But Bailhache says the core concerns that Ukip taps
into are widely held and she wants to give people with Ukip sympathies the
opportunity to signal their support by voting for her. There is some evidence
that, on top of the disaffected white Labour vote and reactionary lower middle
classes, a third group - those who simply don't vote - are having their heads
turned. "Amongst people my age the reaction (to joining Ukip) has been mixed,"
Bailhache said. "A few people have said to be careful, it is a fringe party, and
I think they have got concerns about the racism sticker.

"But I don't think that applied to Ukip at all. I don't think taking control of
immigration is racism. But from the other of my friends, more widely, they have
just been interested. The stronger thrust from people of my age group is simply
not to vote and get involved. If you haven't put your name to any of these
people messing it up, at least you can't be blamed.

"But Ukip does seem to be gaining momentum."

So with these various strands of support, is Ukip an unstoppable force?

Ford and Dr Matthew Goodwin, his co-author on a book on Ukip due out early next
year, Revolt on the Right, believe not. The incoherence within the party will
hold it back, they say. "Ukip have got a real problem," said Goodwin. "Farage
has turned it into a party with a broad appeal. A lot of their support now looks
like Labour voters and they have the traditional, relatively affluent but
insecure, lower middle-class people. But what now? I don't think Ukip actually
knows what it wants to be."

Certainly the email conversation revealed today between Godfrey Bloom, the Ukip
MEP, and the party's treasurer Stuart Wheeler, a former Tory donor, illustrates
an awareness within the leadership of this central problem. The party has no
policies to speak of, Bloom admits, and the intrinsic lack of cogency within the
party means they are unable to solve that problem.

"As Ukip is a very broad church of membership, I won a Labour seat, we will have
many different views on policy", Bloom writes. "Having worked on the defence
paper for over one year, it would appear Ukip has more military and naval
experts than we have soldiers. Most of them do not agree with each other. It is
like herding cats."

Bloom, MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, adds: "The charm and frustration of
Ukip is we have doctors who fancy themselves as tax experts, painters and
decorators who know all about strategic defence issues, and branch chairmen,
retired dentists, who understand the most intricate political solutions for the
nation.

"Our website will have no policies at all on there for 10 years if we adopt a
neo-Byzantine approach to formulating them. This means some quite senior party
members are going to have to stable their hobby horses." The party should "buy"
some policies "off the shelf" from thinktanks, Bloom suggests; why "reinvent the
wheel"?

The email also illustrates how the tensions between the old stalwarts of the
party and the new membership are coming to the fore. Bloom writes: "We are also
attracting new members who bring main party baggage. Focus groups, quotas, even
political correctness. We must be wary of listening to these siren voices. We
did not get where we are today by following, but leading."

So, Ukip is a party unable to agree on policy, split on ideological grounds, but
also divided generationally, with the old stalwarts rejecting the tools of
modern politics. Surely all this turmoil and incoherence must be a terrible
concern to Farage? No, actually, says one senior source. To come to that
conclusion would be to misunderstand what Farage and others at the top of the
party want from the party, the source adds. "There is no plan for electoral
success and that is because Nigel Farage doesn't want to go to Westminster," the
source said.

"He likes his life in Brussels, where he feels he is a powerful man or at least
he has power because he can stand up and scream and shout. He wants to continue
this role.

"The strategy is to be a pressure group and maintain his position in the
European parliament which gives him power and media coverage.

"Farage is supported in this strategy by Stuart Wheeler, who wants to use Ukip
as a pressure group to destroy Cameron, because Cameron sacked him from the
party and he will never forgive him for this. The aim is to get as many votes as
possible so Ukip is a threat and manipulate the agenda.

"What they are really trying to do is drive the agenda of the country."

THE EMAILS

The email conversation revealed today between Godfrey Bloom, the Ukip MEP
(pictured below), and party treasurer Stuart Wheeler:

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

It would appear Ukip has more military and naval experts than we have soldiers.
Most of them do not agree with each other. It is like herding cats.

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

We are also attracting new members who bring main party 'baggage'. Focus groups,
quotas, even political correctness. We must be wary of listening to these siren
voices. We did not get where we are today by following, but leading.

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

We do not have the resources to write serious papers on major subjects, why
reinvent the wheel? Why not buy policy 'off the shelf', where it is close to our
own small government, low tax, libertarian position.

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

Now here's the rub. My experience thus far is that as soon as more than 2 people
get in a room progress completely stops. Even where we have experts of our own
they disagree.

From Godfrey Bloom

Sent 25 April 2013 10:29

To Stuart Wheeler, Nigel Farage and others

The charm and frustration of Ukip is we have doctors who fancy themselves as tax
experts, painters and decorators who know all about strategic defence issues,
and branch chairmen, retired dentists, who understand the most intricate
political solutions for the nation.

From Stuart Wheeler

Sent 25 April 2013 13:38

To Godfrey Bloom

Dear Godfrey, I could not agree more that some people will have to get off their
hobby-horses.

Captions:

Laura Bailhache, 31, a Ukip candidate and solicitor from Taunton, in front of
the town's Castle hotel. Apex

Dorothy Baker, 77, retired teacher, Ukip candidate for Taunton East

Martin Howard, 28, businessman, Ukip candidate for Frome North

Godfrey Davey, 68, retired, Ukip candidate for Yeovil East


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
