
                               1 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 21, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

If the Prime Minister wants to change the EU, he has to stop making enemies;
Inside Westminster

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 868 words


Before every summit of European leaders, Brussels officials try to guess what
"David Cameron's fight story" will be - a manufactured row he hopes will play
well in the media.

This week, they detected three - a proposed EU law that could delay fracking for
shale gas (denied by the European Commission); a claim that the EU planned to
develop unmanned drone aircraft for military use (also denied) and a three-month
delay for migrants from EU nations claiming state benefits in Britain (an EU
-wide policy that Brussels says could have been introduced at any time and
already has been by several member states).

One Whitehall official whispered that the "benefits crackdown" was "all about
countering Ukip". Romanians and Bulgarians get the right to work in Britain on 1
January and Mr Cameron's spin doctors fear an influx, however small, could fill
the news vacuum over the new-year period. So ministers are scrambling into
belated action.

The Home Secretary Theresa May's leaked proposal for a cap on EU migrants raised
unrealistic expectations among Tory Eurosceptics and bemused the UK's natural
allies on the migration issue - Germany and the Netherlands. They are not about
to crush one of the EU's tablets of stone - free movement of its citizens.

By playing to the domestic gallery like this, Conservative ministers, including
Mr Cameron himself, undermine his European strategy. He wants to negotiate a
"new deal" that would enable him to win a vote for continued membership in an
in/out referendum in 2017. That requires making friends and influencing people
in Europe. Yet his long-term goal is often forgotten as he responds to more
immediate pressures and grabs an easy headline.

True, he is under enormous pressure from his own party. Many Tory MPs are deeply
concerned about the threat from Ukip. Nigel Farage's anti-EU party will enter
2014 in a more confident mood than any of the three main parties. It will get
another lift next May, when it looks certain to come first in the European
Parliament elections and push the Tories into third place. There will be a
wobble but Mr Cameron will survive it. What really spooks the Tories is that
Ukip could be the spoiler that costs them scores of seats at the general
election a year later.

Jittery Tories are desperate for the PM to halt the Ukip tide by setting out his
demands for his new EU deal. They want a national veto over current and future
EU laws; curbs on "free movement" of citizens and to dilute the social chapter
of workers' rights.

To his MPs' frustration, Mr Cameron is refusing to reveal his shopping list. He
knows his demands would probably be rejected as an impossible wish-list by most
European nations, and as not enough by Tory hardliners, whose appetites are
never sated. Many have privately decided to vote No in the referendum, whatever
the outcome of the renegotiation.

Moderate Tories fear Mr Cameron has adopted a "Ukip-lite" strategy in the hope
of wooing back the natural Tory supporters who have defected to it. They worry
that pandering to Ukip may only encourage people to vote for the real thing.

Mr Cameron's referendum pledge, made in January, was designed to take the heat
out of the Europe issue until after the general election. It has done nothing of
the sort.

He hoped to use the intervening period to build alliances around the EU table
but, as we saw this week, domestic pressures usually trump EU diplomacy. Of
course all leaders play to the home gallery, especially when elections are in
the offing. Other leaders understand that, but have noticed that Mr Cameron
seems to do it all the time. He is making enemies abroad when he needs to win
friends.

Crucially, his strategy on Europe is too dependent on one person - Angela
Merkel. The re-elected German Chancellor, the most powerful person at the EU
table, would like the UK to remain at it. Tory MPs have got the message that she
will go to the wire to secure enough concessions for Mr Cameron to win a
referendum vote to stay in the EU club. But German officials tell me the Brits
are misreading the mood music. "She will try to help, up to a point, but she is
not going to unpick the [EU] treaties. Some people in London are getting carried
away, and will be disappointed," one said.

A new EU treaty to entrench eurozone reforms will give Mr Cameron a bargaining
tool, as it would require approval of all member states. But German sources say
Mrs Merkel will not allow one or two foot-draggers to hold back the convoy. So
Mr Cameron's nuclear weapon may prove a "phantom" veto, as it did two years ago:
when he blocked a treaty on fiscal union, 25 EU members went ahead with a fiscal
pact anyway.

The PM may find that his best friend in Europe will not die in the ditch for
him. This will make it much harder to win the "Yes" to Europe vote he wants in
the referendum.

Mr Cameron may need other friends in Europe sooner than he realises. By the end
of 2014, all EU members will need to approve the UK Government's plan to opt
back in to 35 European-level measures on justice and home affairs, including
Europol. The word in Brussels is that two member states Mr Cameron has alienated
may make life difficult for him. No prizes for guessing: Romania and Bulgaria.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 19, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Fears unfounded;
Editorials The public debate is becoming ever more xenophobic, but the reality
is that foreign workers are good for Britain

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 541 words


As 1 January draws ever nearer - and with it the lifting of restrictions on
Bulgarian and Romanian citizens' free entry into Britain - the more frenzied and
out of proportion the public debate about immigration is becoming.

As the Prime Minister headed to Brussels yesterday for an EU summit, he was
hastened on his way by tabloid headlines declaring, "If more come in, then get
us out" and polls - conducted for the same newspaper - suggesting not only that
more than 70 per cent of voters consider it important for him to limit
immigration from Europe, but also that, if he does so, it could prove crucial to
the outcome of the promised in/out referendum on Britain's membership.

Given the ferment on the Tory backbenches, and Ukip's gains to David Cameron's
Little-England right, it is little wonder that he should feel pressured. In
response, he has done much to try to gain the upper hand. Only weeks ago, he
outlined plans to minimise the temptations of our welfare and healthcare
provisions. But with hysteria about an "influx" showing few signs of abating,
the Prime Minister yesterday went further still, rushing measures through
Parliament to stop new arrivals claiming out-of-work benefits in their first
three months, ahead of the new year deadline, specifically to "make the UK a
less attractive place for EU migrants".

The problem with all of this is not only the troublingly xenophobic tone
increasingly - and ever more unthinkingly - dominating the public discourse. It
is also that the suggestion Britain is in danger of being swamped by immigrants,
particularly benefits-scrounging immigrants, is simply not true.

First, for every survey predicting a flood of Bulgarian and Romanian migrants in
January, another anticipates but a trickle. More importantly, though, the vast
majority of migrants come here to work, and do just that. Shorn of the rhetoric,
there is nothing wrong with Mr Cameron's latest restrictions. But they are not
needed in order to stem a tide from the former Eastern Bloc, nor will there be
much noticeable impact in the immediate term.

Neither, sad to say, will the issue be laid to rest with Bulgaria and Romania -
as The Sun's rabble-rousing invocation of the referendum makes clear. Indeed, Mr
Cameron has already hinted that the Conservative manifesto for the 2015 election
could include measures to curb the free movement of workers within the EU. And
only this week the Home Secretary was forced to distance herself from an
allegedly leaked government report considering a cap on European migrant numbers
after the Deputy Prime Minister dismissed the plan as "undeliverable" and
"illegal".

It is not that there is no issue here. Concerns about cultural integration,
access to low-skilled jobs and pressure on public services do merit discussion.
But the Prime Minister's capitulation to ill-informed group-think, giving
credence to the notion that immigration is a cost to the country when quite the
opposite is true, is no basis from which to begin. Not only is the UK's appeal
to foreign workers a sign of our success; we are also the beneficiaries of the
work that they do, the value they generate and the taxes they pay. If there is a
wave that risks flooding Britain, it is a wave of fear and foolishness.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 16, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

The future is Europe;
Supporters of the EU can take heart from the endorsement given it by young
Britons Editorials

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 524 words


Politicians who still champion the cause of Britain remaining at the heart of
Europe are a diminished, demoralised force these days. Of the big parties, only
the Liberal Democrats believe in Europe with any zeal, and it has become common
to describe this as the political equivalent of a fetish, which will win them
few votes. But this may be wrong. Although we are deluged with anti-European
scare stories about interfering bureaucrats and sharp-elbowed immigrants, a new
poll shows that many young Britons want this country to keep faith with Europe.

The survey, which ICM Research conducted at the end of last month, shows that
young Britons are considerably more pro-European than the population as a whole
and much more pro-European than the elderly. Among the 18 to 24 age group, pro-
EU youngsters outnumber their anti-EU peers by a significant margin; 41 per cent
say they would definitely, or probably, vote for Britain to remain in the EU in
a referendum, while 32 per cent would vote to come out. By contrast, among the
over-65s, a whopping 60 per cent would vote to leave the EU and only 35 per cent
would vote to stay in. A striking gap between the generations over Britain's
place in Europe is revealed.

Closer analysis of why young people appear more receptive to the European idea
than either their parents or their grandparents would be welcome. This is
because, in one sense, their pro-European leanings could be seen as paradoxical.
After all, people in their early 20s are far more likely to be competing for
relatively low-paid work with migrants from EU countries than people in their
60s. The findings suggest that some youngsters indeed resent this increased
competition for jobs. At the same time, generally, young Britons seem to be less
spooked by immigration than older Britons and more open to the potential
benefits of European integration, too, starting with the free movement of
labour.

Perhaps they are the first generation of Britons to grow up practically devoid
of the old sense of Britain as an island, and thus as a society that is
intrinsically separate from, and different to, those of continental Europe. If
so, the consequences could be profound a few years down the line if, by then,
they sense that the older generation is turning Britain into a kind of fortress.

There are, of course, some important caveats with the survey. One is that
pension-age Britons are more fixed in their largely hostile views on Europe than
the under-25s; only 9 per cent of the former are "don't-know"s on the question
of Britain's EU membership, compared to 26 per cent among the latter. Another
important point, from which Ukip and the Tory Eurosceptics could take heart, is
that old people vote more than young people.

Nevertheless, pro-Europeans, not just in politics but in public life generally,
should take note of the extent of this goodwill towards the European idea and up
their game. They should stop being so apologetic and faint hearted. They may
have little hope of winning over Britain's pensioners, who are expanding as a
proportion of the population and thus of the electorate, but the future lies
with the young.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 16, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Young people 'want UK to stay in Europe';
* Four in 10 adults aged 18 to 24 are 'firmly in favour' of membership, poll
shows * Younger voters view free movement within the EU as a 'two-way street'
EXCLUSIVE Young voters support free movement across EU member states

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 948 words


Young Britons are significantly more pro-European than older generations and
fear that leaving the EU would jeopardise their job prospects at home and on the
Continent, research suggests.

A "generation gap" has opened up in British attitudes to Europe, with young
people who have grown up with the freedom of movement reluctant to give up the
right to pursue career opportunities in other EU countries.

Younger voters are also more worried that politicians' aggressive language
towards eastern European migrants could stoke up community tensions, according
to the poll for the British Future think-tank. Sunder Katwala, its director,
said the survey showed younger voters viewed free movement within the EU as a
"two-way street".

He added: "While some older Britons might want to pull up the drawbridge to stop
more people getting in, their grandchildren are worried that this could stop
them getting out to find work."

The poll by ICM Research, which will be published this week, found that 41 per
cent of adults aged between 18 and 24 were either firmly in favour of EU
membership or leaning towards support, against 32 per cent who took the opposite
view - a pro-EU gap (after rounding) of eight points. By contrast, the survey
found an anti-EU majority of 35 points among the over-65s, with 60 per cent
strongly against continued membership or leaning towards that stance, and only
25 per cent taking the opposite position.

The findings come two weeks before transitional controls on the right of
Romanians and Bulgarians to work in Britain are lifted. The potential influx of
thousands of migrants from two of the newest EU member states from 1 January
threatens to propel the issue of Britain's place in Europe to the top of the
political agenda.

More than 70 Tory MPs are calling for David Cameron to defy the European
Commission and retain the controls. The UK Independence Party plans to put the
arrival of Romanians and Bulgarians at the heart of its European elections
campaign next year.

The Coalition has announced a series of measures designed to deter "benefit
tourists" from EU member states and Theresa May, the Home Secretary, is drawing
up proposals to toughen Britain's stance on "freedom of movement" within the EU.
The findings of the British Future poll imply that a referendum on EU membership
could divide the country down generational lines, rather than by class, gender
or geography. Mr Cameron has promised a national vote by the end of 2017 if the
Conservatives win the next election.

Fear about what impact withdrawal from the EU will have on jobs appears to be
the key reason for the gulf between age groups. Asked what risks would influence
their decision in a referendum, 82 per cent of young voters named the effect on
the economy and employment, compared with 62 per cent of over-65s. The gap was
even more striking among voters who raised concerns about Britons' potential
loss of the right to work in the EU, with 77 per cent of under-25s citing it as
a risk, against 49 per cent of older voters.

More than three-quarters (76 per cent) of those aged 18 to 24 are worried about
losing EU inward funding for disadvantaged areas of the UK, versus 54 per cent
of the 65-plus group who viewed this as a risk.

Younger people said they were concerned that the UK's response to EU migration
should not discriminate against newcomers, which is likely to reflect how this
age group has been brought up in a much more multiracial society than their
older relatives. By a majority of nearly eight to one (70 per cent to 9 per
cent) they agreed with the statement: "People are worried that immigration from
Romania and Bulgaria will put pressures on local public services and we need to
manage that. But let's not stir up tensions before they've even got here - we
can deal with the issues without being prejudiced". In contrast, the statement
was supported by a majority of less than two to one among over-65s (56 per cent
to 29 per cent).

"Our research found this is a more liberal generation??? more relaxed about
Europe and also keen to keep prejudice out of any debate about immigration," Mr
Katwala added.

It emerged yesterday that the Coalition has drawn up plans to limit the extent
of free movement within the EU. It suggests an annual cap could be set to cut
net migration from EU countries by 30,000 from the current 106,000 a year. A
leaked policy document also floats the idea of blocking EU nationals from
claiming benefits or tax credits for their first five years in the UK.

The ideas - which are likely to run into strong resistance in Brussels - would
mean that professionals and highly skilled migrants from countries such as
Germany and France would be allowed to move to Britain only if they had a job
waiting for them.

CASE STUDY

ANGUS GORDON

Angus Gordon, 23, from Manchester, moved to Germany in January 2013. He teaches
English to business clients around Berlin.

"Before I migrated to Germany, the European Parliament wasn't on my agenda.
Since migrating, that is no longer the case and I share the fears expressed in
this survey about losing that free movement.

"I originally moved because of the employment situation in Britain. There was no
shortage of opportunities abroad. I just loved the ease with which I could move
and I remember remarking at the time to my parents that it seemed even easier to
move to Germany, paperwork-wise, than it did to get a job in my local area.

"I am concerned [about potential movement restrictions]. I think it would be a
tragedy to lose such a privilege. I had American and Australian colleagues in
Kiel who were always fretting about visas and I was marvelling at how great it
was that I didn't have that inconvenience."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 2, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Message to forecasters: don't assume that the future will turn out like the past

BYLINE: David Blanchflower

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 999 words


The distinguished Harvard economist John Kenneth Galbraith once famously quipped
that "The only function of economic forecasting is to make astrology look
respectable." It was bad enough that economic forecasters collectively failed to
spot the greatest recession in a hundred years, but even more worrying is that
they seem to have learnt little since.

The Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee has been especially bad,
predicting rapid recovery that never happened in all 20 of its quarterly
forecasts since it failed to spot the recession in August 2008, despite the fact
that the recession had started in April 2008. The MPC's inflation forecasts have
been equally bad. Hopeless.

Astonishingly, the people in charge of forecasting at the Bank of England today
are the same ones who failed to spot the recession in the first place, including
the chief economist, Spencer Dale, and Deputy Governor for Monetary Policy,
Charlie Bean, who retires next June. A big issue will be who replaces him. Let's
hope the Governor has a high flyer from the Bank of Canada or the Fed he can
purloin, or that the imaginative Andy Haldane has built bridges with his new
boss.

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development this week in its
November 2013 Economic Outlook upped its forecast for fourth-quarter GDP growth
in the UK to 2.6 per cent in 2013; 2.0 per cent in 2014; and 2.8 per cent in
2015. The latest growth forecast published by the MPC last week is even more
optimistic than that, suggesting growth of over 3 per cent in the first two
quarters of 2014 and around 2.5 per cent per annum through 2016. The MPC is even
predicting a greater than 10 per cent chance of growth of as much as 5 per cent
by 2015.

As a guide to how overly optimistic the MPC's growth forecasts have been in the
past, the chart on the right compares the forecast made in November 2010 with
the observed outcomes. It needs a little explaining: the red line is what
actually occurred, while the grey band is the fan chart representing the MPC
forecast.

The darkest grey part, being the central projection, suggests that just as they
are forecasting now, they guessed growth would be around 3 per cent for the
following three years. The red line shows how disastrously wrong they were:
instead of the rising growth they projected, growth fell; growth at the end of
2012 was at the bottom of the fan at zero, rather than anywhere near to the
laughable 6 per cent they said was possible. To the left of the vertical dotted
line is the backcast, which is also measured with error because data gets
revised for years.

The dark "latest vintage" line is where the data estimates are now.

The red line to the left of the vertical line shows the MPC was expecting past
data to be revised upwards, which to some degree did happen. It should be said
that the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) was similarly overly optimistic
about growth. In June 2010 it forecast growth of 1.2 per cent (1.7 per cent) in
2010; 2.3 per cent (1.1 per cent) in 2011; and 2.8 per cent (0.1 per cent) in
2012, so over the last two full years GDP growth was less than a quarter of what
the OBR predicted.

Patterns in the data prior to the recession seem to not predict well after it.
So what went wrong? The answer is that forecasters mechanically assumed that
what had happened in previous recessions would happen once again, a decline
would be followed by a rapid pick-up in growth, which hasn't happened, in part
because banks are not lending, especially to small firms, and the Government has
engaged in austerity.

We have never seen anything like this before, with interest rates at the zero
nominal bound and steadily falling real wages.

Keynes did warn about the "long dragging conditions of semi-slump". This brings
me to the second chart, which plots Labour's lead over the Tories in the 1,286
polls that have been taken since the formation of the Coalition, starting on 20
May 2010 - a negative number implies a Tory lead.

There are five parts. The first shows a Tory lead, which steadily diminishes
through the beginning of 2011. The second part is a fall in that lead through
the end of 2011 when the Tories hold a lead from October through the end of
January. The third stage is a Labour pick-up, with them holding a lead of around
10 points through to the end of the year. The fourth stage is a fall in the
Labour lead, and then the final stage is a pick-up in Labour's lead since the
end of August 2013.

Since the beginning of November the lead has averaged 7 points; based on the
averages from the 25 November polls, assuming a uniform swing and using
www.ukpollingreport.co.uk swing calculator, this implies an outright Labour
majority of 86 seats, made up as follows: Tories 31.9 per cent (234); Labour
38.92 per cent (368); Lib Dems 9.96 per cent (23); others 19.24 per cent (7);
and Northern Ireland (18).

The Tory spin machine has suggested that this lead isn't big enough to win based
on the narrowing in the polls that occurred in past elections. The commentators
John Rentoul and Dan Hodges and the Tory spin machine have gone so far as to
declare victory for David Cameron.

The Government is so bad it should be much further behind in the polls.

But not so fast: why should what happened in a different era have any predictive
power; in all likelihood it has nil, just as it has had none in recent economic
forecasts.

We have never had an election when there was a coalition government in office,
UKIP or the possibility of a referendum to leave the EU. Plus in no previous
elections has there been falling real wages, public sector job cuts and pay
freezes and little or no growth for years. Recall that the field of
international relations failed to spot the fall of the Berlin Wall.

Ladbrokes and Paddy Power rightly both have Labour as strong favourites. The
best estimate we have right now is that Labour will win in 2015 with an outright
majority of 86???! Beware of out-of-sample predictions. The two Eds will be
pleased.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 30, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Commons approves EU referendum Bill;
NEWS IN BRIEF POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 68 words


A Bill calling for a referendum on the UK's membership of the EU in 2017 has
been approved by the House of Commons.

The legislation passed its final stage in the Commons yesterday despite efforts
by Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs to delay its passage. The Bill will now move
to the House of Lords for scrutiny early next year.

The Tory MP behind the Bill, James Wharton, said it was a "significant"
milestone.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

EU turns on Cameron - but Hollande and Merkel back his immigration stand

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 774 words


David Cameron's emergency response to fears of a looming influx of Romanians and
Bulgarians came under fire in Brussels yesterday - but failed to placate Tory
backbench critics who demanded more draconian restrictions.

The Prime Minister set out moves to overhaul welfare rules, including stopping
new EU arrivals from receiving out-of-work benefits for their first three months
in Britain and making it harder for them to qualify for state support.

He also pledged that rough sleepers from the EU would be deported and banned
from returning to Britain within 12 months.

The moves follow concerns fuelled by the UK Independence Party, and shared by
many on the Tory right, that tens of thousands of Romanians and Bulgarians would
head to Britain after restrictions on working in the UK are lifted on 1 January
2014.

Mr Cameron said the clampdown would send a clear signal to potential migrants
that Britain was not a "soft touch".

But his proposals were condemned as an "unfortunate over-reaction" by Laszlo
Andor, the European Employment Commissioner, who warned that the move risked
"presenting the UK as the kind of nasty country in the European Union".

Viviane Reding, the Justice Commissioner, said she did not understand the
"political logic" of the moves, given that the Government has been a keen
supporter of EU enlargement and British citizens take full advantage of freedom
of movement, setting up homes and businesses overseas. "Free movement is a
fundamental pillar of the single market and the single market is something
Britain has signed up to and is very dear to the heart of Great Britain," she
said.

Britain insisted the plans were legally water-tight within EU law, although the
European Commission said it would reserve judgement until it had studied the
proposals in greater detail.

The Government was buoyed up last night by the disclosure that the new governing
coalition formed by Angela Merkel in Germany had committed itself to "reducing
incentives for migration" by amending its domestic laws on welfare. Downing
Street said the development proved that Mr Cameron's initiative was gaining wide
support across the EU.

President François Hollande's government in France also called for tighter
restrictions on EU migrants and Britain says its stance is also being backed by
the Netherlands and Austria.

At an EU summit in Lithuania today, Mr Cameron will lobby other leaders for
their support in limiting the right to freedom of movement, to prevent huge
shifts of population across the union in future.

His plans were not enough to stop a succession of Conservative MPs calling for
controls on Romanian and Bulgarian migrants to be extended for another five
years.

Any such move would fall foul of courts both in Britain and Europe, but
Eurosceptics urged ministers to defy EU law and maintain the controls. More than
40 Tory MPs have publicly backed the move.

Philip Hollobone, MP for Kettering, said: "My constituents take the view that
this country is full and we should not open our borders to Romania and Bulgaria.

"Yes, this country will be taken to court, but it will be a signal of firm
intent about our renegotiation of the EU treaties and by the time it comes to
court hopefully we will have had our referendum and left this wretched
organisation altogether."

Meanwhile, Boris Johnson, the London Mayor, claimed last night that Baroness
Thatcher would have supported Britain remaining in the EU if she were still in
office. "I don't think she would pull out of the single market that she helped
to create," he argued in the third Margaret Thatcher lecture. "I think she would
recognise there is a chance to get a better deal."

BENEFITS AND BEGGARS

WHAT THE CHANGES MEAN

What has David Cameron announced?

A variety of new measures to restrict the right of EU nationals to claim
benefits. It includes new rules on entitlement to out-of-work benefits, income
support and housing benefit, and a pledge to deport beggars.

What happens now?

Since 2007, when the countries joined the EU, their citizens have only been to
take jobs if they have a work visa or were accepted on agricultural and food
processing schemes. People from the other EU member states qualify for benefits
if they satisfy the "habitual residence test" - that they are available to work
and can support themselves.

How is that changing?

The test will be made tougher, with claimants having to prove they are actively
looking for a job and are proficient in English. There will be a three-month
waiting period before they can claim benefits, which will have a six-month
limit.

When will the changes come into force?

Some of the measures will be implemented on 1 January.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 25, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Think global not European to keep the City and Britain prosperous;
Another voice

BYLINE: Nigel Farage

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 758 words


I've been lying here in bed in the London Bridge hospital recovering from major
surgery. After months of agonising pain I now hope that my back and neck have
been sorted out and that after a few weeks I can get back to work.

One of the big advantages of the room I'm in is that I can look out my window
down at London Bridge, watching all the worker ants going to and from work,
reminding myself that I did that every day before I gave it all up for politics.

The view is quite astonishing because what I have in front of me is a thousand
years of London history. I look to the right and I can see the Tower of London,
built by William the Conqueror. Then there's the Monument erected in memory of
those who lost their lives in the blazing inferno of the Great Fire in 1666
which was able to devastate about 90 per cent of the houses and businesses
because of the cramped conditions. But people lived in them because London was
the place to be if you weren't born into wealth and wanted to earn a living and
make something of yourself.

I can also see the newer buildings of the Gherkin and the NatWest tower, showing
that after centuries the City of London remains still a financial hub.
Everything that has been great about London is right in front of me; everything
that has been wealth-creating for the country is here.

And why? Well it started with the Romans who first established "Londinium" and
ever since then the culture that we've developed has been one of mercantilism,
one of trade. And in many ways, one of outward-looking expansionism. The British
Empire was based on trade and just across the river from me is the London metal
exchange, where I worked for 20 years, and the plethora of financial markets,
products, innovation and ideas. London is a global financial services centre.

And yet, this place that has produced such enormous wealth, not just for a few
but for the whole country, is now facing problems. Yes of course there was the
greed and the malpractice of some of the banks, exposed this week in perhaps an
even more hilarious fashion than before by the reported antics of the Rev Paul
Flowers.

But much of this was caused by ignorant politicians, stoking a credit bubble by
removing the powers of the Bank of England and handing them to the useless FSA.
Why do the bankers get all the blame?

What really worries me is London's future. Shall we continue to be the centre
for global trade or are we going to find ourselves hemmed in and stuck with a
vision that is very much smaller? You see the big thinking idea 40 years ago
behind the "Common Market" was that we would extend our domestic marketplace,
specifically in manufactured goods, and we would expand into a European market,
free from tariffs.

I was too young to vote in that referendum, but I can understand why people were
eager to vote for a greater opportunity for free trade: free trade makes
everyone wealthier, from the richer economies who can turn primary and secondary
stage goods into finished products to the developing countries who can tear off
the shackles of subsistence farming which keeps them in abject poverty.

But when it comes to trade in services, such as insurance, there is nothing
about the European view that is big or forward-looking at all. The trouble is
that there is a culture in Brussels that tends to blame what they see as
Anglo-Saxon capitalism for all the failings of the euro. Even back in 2006 there
was a report into Hedge Funds with a German MEP saying that the capitalist,
profit-making idea of hedge fund products was not wanted in the EU. What? No
jobs? No tax revenue?

I look at this City and I realise that an awful lot of the reinsurance business
has left and gone to Bermuda; much of the hedge fund business has moved to
Zurich and Geneva, and some of it has gone to Singapore and will never come
back. That's jobs that have gone. That's potential growth and prosperity moved
away from this City where it flourished. But the City is not just London. In
Cardiff, in Birmingham, in every major city the financial services industry
provides jobs and wealth. That's nearly 10 per cent of the work force in this
country and over 15 per cent of the tax revenue.

I want the City of London to become a bigger version of Switzerland today. That
means sensible, appropriate regulation shaped in a UK Parliament and not by the
European Commission. To succeed in the future we shall need to compete with
Singapore, not Paris. This point is entirely lost on our political class and the
supposedly pro-business CBI.

Britain must go global.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 23, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Miliband told to pledge EU referendum;
NEWS IN BRIEF POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 123 words


An adviser to Ed Miliband has urged the Labour leader to propose a referendum on
Britain's EU membership before the 2015 general election.

Lord Mitchell, who was appointed as Mr Miliband's business ambassador and
enterprise adviser in July, said it would be "very difficult" for the party to
resist demands for a public vote. He told Parliament's The House magazine: "I
would say if a decision is being taken for a referendum it should have been
taken as quickly as possible."

Mr Miliband has opposed David Cameron's plan for an in/out referendum in 2017
but some Shadow Cabinet members, including Ed Balls, are more open to a
plebiscite. A proposal by the Conservative MP Adam Afriyie for a referendum next
year was defeated by 249 votes to 15.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Glafkos Clerides;
Politician. Born: 1919 Statesman who saw Cyprus through independence, partition
and entry into the European Union in 2004

BYLINE: RUPERT CORNWELL

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 869 words


Glafkos Clerides was the incarnation of modern, independent Cyprus - from the
struggle for independence from Britain to the tragedy of the Turkish invasion
and division of the island in 1974; from the long and still fruitless efforts to
heal that partition to the entry of his country into the European Union in 2004.

For half a century of Cypriot history Clerides was at centre stage. He was an
activist in the Eoka movement that sought to end British rule and unite Cyprus
with Greece. After independence was achieved in 1960, and tensions grew between
the island's Greek majority and Turkish minority communities, he was a key
negotiator in efforts to find a peaceful settlement, conspicuous for his
courteous pragmatic style and quick sense of humour.

But he was best known as president. His first stint in the job was brief and
accidental, during the five-month interregnum between the July 1974 overthrow of
Archbishop Makarios, in a coup mounted by backers of union with Greece and
ordered by the colonels' junta in Athens, and the formal reinstatement of
Makarios that December.

On five occasions subsequently, Clerides stood for president in own right,
winning twice. He held the office between 1993 and 2003, failing to achieve his
dream of a re-united Cyprus but laying the groundwork for the internationally
recognised Republic of Cyprus to join the EU a year after he left office.

As a young man, Clerides also personified the complicated relationship between
Cyprus and its colonial power. Hoping like many Greek Cypriots that an Allied
victory over Germany would lead to enosis, or union with Greece, he volunteered
to serve in the Royal Air Force. Shot down over Germany, he was a prisoner of
war until 1945, returning to London to take his law degree at King's College.

During his London years Clerides first met a young Turkish Cypriot lawyer named
Rauf Denktash - later to lead the island's Turkish community and serve as
president of the rump Turkish Republic of Cyprus. The two men became friends but
lifelong political competitors. They were sparring partners but always
respectful of each other, despite years of gruelling and ultimately unsuccessful
negotiations. Even so, Denktash's stubbornness would drive Clerides close to
despair. "If I had someone else instead of Denktash," he said later, "the Cyprus
problem would have been solved long ago."

It was intractable from the beginning. During the 1950s Clerides was by day a
lawyer in Nicosia but an after-hours member of Eoka, operating under the alias
"Hyperides". In 1959 he took part in the London conference on independence, and
became the new country's first minister of justice before being elected speaker
of the new parliament, a post he held until 1976.

His most important function, however, was as a negotiator, first with the
British over the UK bases in Cyprus, then with the Turks as strains between the
island's two communities worsened. Twice, Clerides and Denktash came close to
agreements that might have averted the disaster of 1974, but both deals were
reportedly blocked by Makarios. Then came the coup, the Turkish invasion and
creation of the TRNC, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, recognised only
by Ankara, and of which Denktash was president from 1983 to 2005.

Clerides had twice been defeated for president, in 1983 and 1988, but his third
attempt was successful. His tenure, inevitably, was a balancing act between
ensuring the security of his country and keeping the door open to reunification
with the North that occupied some 40 per cent of the island's territory.

The former concern in 1997 provoked the biggest crisis of his presidency, as
Clerides sought to bolster Cyprus's defences with Russian-built S300 long-range
anti-aircraft missiles. Turkey's response was the threat of a new war.
Eventually he backed down and the missile systems were moved to Crete.

Clerides' most tangible success was entry into the EU, a testament to his
country's economic performance during his presidency. But that quest became
entwined with the search for the biggest prize of all, a settlement with the
Turkish north and re-unification of the island.

In the years around 2000, the common ambition of both Republics of Cyprus and
Turkey to join the EU offered an unprecedented opportunity. Denktash was, of
course, against the idea. Not so, however, ordinary citizens of the TRNC, who
saw Europe as the means of ending their isolation and boosting a standard of
living by now far below that south of the "Green Line" demilitarised zone,
patrolled by United Nations peacekeepers, which divided the two states.

The plan elaborated under the aegis of Kofi Annan, the UN Secretary General,
foresaw a united Cyprus as a member of the EU, a federation of two states
loosely modelled on Switzerland. Clerides supported the scheme, but ancient
suspicions proved too strong. Although 65 per cent of the Turkish community
voted in favour of the plan in a referendum in April 2004, the Greek Cypriot
community rejected it by an even larger margin.

Glafkos Joannou Clerides, lawyer and politician: born Nicosia 24 April 1919;
President of Cyprus 1993-2003; married 1945 Lilla Erulkar (deceased; one
daughter); died Nicosia 15 November 2013.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 15, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

From Eastern Europe to the East End;
They come in droves from Poland, Lithuania, Albania and Romania. But what is
life really like in Britain for our immigrant neighbours?

BYLINE: BEN JUDAH

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 2350 words


Margaret Thatcher loved the maquette of Canary Wharf. She listened enthralled as
the architects explained how a light railway would extend through the razed old
docks.

There was a toy train running round the mock-up. The whole thing was over
10,000sq ft. The little railway ended in acres of suburban housing. Little
red-brick cottages arranged in geometrical closes and perpendiculars. The
developers explained to the Prime Minister that this was where commuters to the
financial towers would live. Just 20 minutes away from work and on the water's
edge. All of them property owners. She adored the architects' model dream.

The Docklands Light Railway still has the feel of a scale model. The stations
sound as if they were named after pubs: Royal Albert, Royal Victoria, Galleon's
Reach. But the high-rise housing over the easternmost spur of the DLR has seen
happier days. Dirty England flags hang from balconies. Panoramic vistas over
gargantuan retail parks. The Millennium Dome (now the O2) is filthy, begging to
be torn down.

Beckton is the end of the line, rebuilt for a middle class that never arrived.
Now superimpose a poverty map of London over a Tube map. Dark red runs along the
line to Beckton. More than 60 per cent of the children here grow up in poverty.
But there is worse data. London is statistically parcelled up into 4,772
micro-areas. Beckton is the tenth most deprived. Twenty minutes from the
headquarters of HSBC.

Beckton doesn't look foreign at first. The unkempt trees leering over cracked
pavements. The locals-only pubs. Dreary parking lots. It looks like the
abandoned set of Brookside. But it sounds like a foreign country. Everyone
exiting the station ticket barriers is talking Polish or Bengali, Lithuanian or
Romanian.

Immigrant London used to be found within Tube zone two. It used to be about
Bangladeshi Spitalfields and Jamaican Brixton. Right through the 20th century,
one trend held steady: immigrants began in the decaying inner city, while the
white working class moved out to Kent and Essex. This is not how immigration
works any more.

There is a whole Eastern European city in London. This city is bigger than
Sheffield, with more than 500,000 people. More than half are from Poland. More
than 80 per cent have arrived since 2004. These are people from Lithuania,
Romania, Bulgaria and the other poor countries that joined the EU then or later.
This is a city working in basic jobs. But it also has its Russian aristocrats
and tens of thousands of professionals, not to mention refugees from Bosnia and
Kosovo.

Most live in zone three. Places such as Beckton. Here, old whites sip Carling
lager resentfully in the afternoon pubs. Escapees from the inner-city
degeneration of the 1980s, they have been dealt a cruel turn of fate by the
metropolis. The DLR dream brochure they bought into has turned into a place less
than 50 per cent white British. Unable to afford a reverse white flight,
grittier types take to wearing England football shirts at every occasion.
Eastern Europeans make up about 20 per cent of the Beckton population,
Bangladeshis a further 25 per cent.

I entered a hangar-sized Lithuanian supermarket. Lithuanian mothers pushed
trolleys down aisles of pickles of mindboggling size. There were tables of
activists getting out the vote for a Lithuanian fracking referendum. Blue
tracksuits lounged in the Lithuanian café-grill. There was everything a
Lithuanian might need. Grotesque Russian paintings were being exhibited on the
second level where there was a small bookshop stocked with Lithuanian tomes and
anti-Putin pamphlets. Three women were sitting at a kiddies' table in the
middle, having tea. Chopin tinkled in the background. "I don't live in Britain,"
the owner said. "I live in Lithuania. I watch Lithuanian TV. I use the internet
in Lithuanian. My friends are all Lithuanians. This shop is Lithuanian. I only
meet Lithuanians. The only thing I do in Britain is pay taxes to the British."

Beckton empties between 6 and 7.30am. The first trains belong to Africans and
Eastern Europeans. Africans have sewn up industrial office cleaning. Poles,
Romanians and Lithuanians have tied up building. Because they are reliable and
recommend their friends, these jobs are rarely advertised in English. Their
girlfriends dominate house cleaning and waitressing.

In the morning darkness past illuminated Canary Wharf ride the bleary-eyed
renovators of a city they barely understand. Men such as Jurek, a phlegmatic
Polish labourer from Gdansk. He commutes in every morning to Kensington. London
construction is a game for the rich. There are no jobs building office blocks
and data centres in the suburbs but they are three a penny digging basement
ballrooms in the Royal Borough.

Back home, Jurek used to work at a sewage treatment plant. He would daydream
about EuroMillions. They sacked him. He had always loved gambling. So after
three days drinking he got on a night bus, without any real plan. He woke up at
Victoria Coach Station - our miserable Ellis Island. Poles he met there told him
that their foreman needed extra labourers. The pay was only £5 an hour but it
was in a good area.

Jurek was gobsmacked by the white wedding-cake mansions this Perivale Polish
company was renovating. They had columns like ancient temples over the doors.
Floral stucco mouldings rounded the ceilings. He was also surprised that
everyone who lived in Arcadia appeared to be Filipino. Every morning, a busy
little woman would unbolt the lower ground door and dash out to stock up on
brass polish. Jurek would make a point of greeting her: "Good day, Madam." He
imagined her to be an oligarch's wife. But she would giggle and rush inside.
"Thank you, Mister." He did this for about a month until one of the bricklayers
took him aside. "The owners are in Russia, dipshit. The gooks are the maids."

I worked on a site in Pimlico. My job consisted exclusively of loading rubbish.
There is more of this on a building site than you can possibly imagine: wood
shavings and plaster drippings, untold chunks of MDF, boundless rubble, foam
wrapping and glass shards. Renovating a £2.5m flat for £7 an hour was a bunch of
dreamers. There was Stas, who in his 10 years working in London had learnt only
12 words of English, most of them swear words.

For 10 years, he had sworn at co-worker Jacek, a spindly painter from Krakow who
knew maybe 20 words of English, all of them paint-related. They were both like
sailors, renovating London for nine months and then back to Poland.

Jacek was here because his daughter had Down's syndrome. Every pound he could
spare was sent back to pay for her care home in Germany. He welled up explaining
that there are no such institutions in Poland. Jacek's sacrifice meant that at
the age of 50 he had shared damp rooms his entire adult life.

Lunch brought Stas and Jacek out of their squabbling and into conflict with the
youngest labourer in the team, a grumpy, heavyset joiner whom both inexplicably
called Miner. He was a newcomer, in England only since 2009. Miner knew some
English. Just about enough to read.

He was, like almost all builders, an obsessive saver. But unlike the rest, he
was neurotic about it. He was always on his mobile phone calculating the precise
value of his savings. This was because like many of the young ones he thought he
was only here temporarily. He was saving to build a house, a dream mansion.

Miner needed £30,000 but the exchange rate and the influx of Romanian workers
were working against him. He rolled a cigarette. "Those Romanians are a bunch of
uninsured cowboy builders! They are driving down our wages. They're working for
£4 an hour. Britain is mad to let them in."

If Conservative MPs ever deigned to talk to Polish builders they might discover
people near-identical to the Norman Tebbit fantasy of the working class.
Industrious savers. Family people. Willing to work for nothing. Fans of
Thatcher, the Soviet-fighter. Disgusted by trade unionists and completely
depoliticised.

Polish churches are full every Sunday. London was long a city of empty Victorian
churches. These Gothic chapels now echo to Polish mass and Nigerian choirs.
Polish churches are full of toddlers and pushchairs. Teary tattooed plumbers
cross themselves. Hard-up meat packers shove £20 into the collection boxes for
the nuns needing furniture in eastern Poland.

I went drinking with Miner. We began in the newsagent by filling a blue plastic
bag with a dozen cans of Lechs. It tore. Traipsing home, Miner shared his
confusion about the English. "Why do they give the benefits? Why £60 a week and
a free flat for a lazy pig that don't work?"

Miner snatched the police notice in his letterbox. "Fuck, not again." He
quivered in rage. "The black people are at it again!" Miner lived in that part
of London derided as Poundland. Dirty parades of betting shops, twirling doner
kebabs, payday lenders, unlicensed pawnbrokers and signs for "We Buy Gold". The
cans were cracked open. Miner drank and grew flushed. There were six people
living in two rooms. My friend, his girlfriend, and his father in one room. In
the other, Margarita the cleaner, her boyfriend and her tired mother.

Polish builders are a little bit racist. London is probably home to more than
300,000 Polish migrants. But we can only estimate that. So keen are they to save
that little bit extra that many go under the radar to avoid tax. This is why
every builder I spoke to on the site had been burgled. Their flats are always
the cheapest, built with flimsy locks that can be undone in 10 seconds.
Sometimes landlords are in on the racket.

Burglars love Poles because they are paid in cash and hide it in shoeboxes. When
they see builders and cleaners moving in over the road, they are already
laughing. They can sometimes make £5,000 from one bedsit. And they know the
Poles will never call the police.

Miner wanted to relax by showing me pictures of £5m townhouses he had renovated.
I was saved from this melancholy slide show by the return of Margarita the
cleaner. Like all cleaners, this girl from Bialystok likes to boast she knows
everything about her homeowners. "I could hold them to ransom." She giggled. "I
know the Clapham housewife who cheats because I clean the sheets. I know the
Clerkenwell banker who loves cocaine because I find his powdered Oyster card."
But cleaners never think of themselves as cleaners. They are always future
professionals. They have big dreams about Britain, unlike their boyfriends,
because they speak English. English unlocks London. Before long, many start
flirting with the charming boys working at JD Sports. Those in love with Polish
men start to tell them they want to have children here.

Miner's eyes revolved. This is how the Polish dream house slips out of sight.
His girlfriend wants to stay. London has left its Polish builders feeling
emasculated. A labourer earns £7 an hour but a cleaner makes £10 an hour.
Workmen unable to speak English have little choice but to chase Polish girls
they cannot afford the cocktails for.

Not everyone will get lucky like Miner. In 20 years, he will still be here,
probably in Streatham. He will have a cocky son with literary or financial
aspirations in a sixth-form college, flaunting a fashionable Polishness.

The luckless in Polish London drink. Drinking blights the Polish countryside.
This has now come to the streets of London. The majority of tramps in the city
are Polish and Lithuanian. There are at least 5,000 of them. Over 3,000 have
been bussed home over the past five years.

There were Polish tramps in north London who were forced to work unloading
trucks for Turkish shopkeepers. These villains paid them in the tramp's drink of
choice - White Ace cider. I cannot describe how bad it tastes. Others were found
roasting rats in back alleys in Tottenham and Haringey.

These humiliated tramps are hiding. They are hiding from their families. Unable
to bear the shame that London turned out to be a soiled mattress under a
flyover.

Every year, there is a service at St Martin-in-the-Fields for those who died on
the streets of London. They are men who were run over by minicabs that never
stopped. Men who fell asleep on the Thames shore at low tide but could not swim.
Most of them were Eastern European tramps.

The artful dodgers of this London are the Albanians. They are the only people
the Poles are afraid of. Builders tell stories of Poles who went to work for
Albanians only to be beaten into a coma when they asked for their wages. They
ask how Britain could ever have let such dangerous people in.

The Albanian pub in Kilburn looks like a normal pub, your classic dingy
mock-Tudor watering-hole. But outside they are grilling meat just like in the
Balkans. Guys in gold chains and holed fashion jeans sit outside smoking with
cute girls in fake fur collars. The Albanian pubs are full of mafia stories.
This is because the Kray brothers of today are from the Balkans. The Yugoslav
wars brought at least 30,000 Kosovar refugees and Albanian runaways to London.
The wave brought with it several hundred gangsters, hardened KLA veterans and
sworn brothers from criminal mountain clans.

Albanian London despises the mafia. Pints are raised to their downfall in
Kilburn pubs. These are honest people furious that criminals have tarred their
name. These people love Britain more than Ukip ever could. This is because
Albanian London is one of refugees. Fathers named daughters born in the UK after
sisters tortured by Serbian paramilitaries in Kosovo. Children are taught about
Tony Blair granting them asylum which saved them from war and poverty.

Poles and Albanians talk about Britain as a "mini-America". But there is no
British dream. East Europeans came to London not inspired by a dream of how
great things could be, but by the knowledge of how much worse they can be. Talk
of Britishness draws a blank face. Immigrants say, "Britain is a land of
opportunity". But they do not feel particularly welcome. As if they are living
in a spare room.

A longer version of this article is published in the November issue of
Standpoint magazine, standpointmag.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Nissan's chief executive warns of consequences if Britain quits the EU

BYLINE: TOBY GREEN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 422 words


The chief executive of the UK's biggest car maker has added to fears over the
economic consequences of an exit from the European Union, by warning it would
force a re-evaluation of the company's presence in this country.

Carlos Ghosn - the head of Nissan, whose plant in Sunderland employs 6,500
workers - said a vote by the UK to leave the EU would require the Japanese com-
pany to "reconsider our strategy and our investments for the future".

With David Cameron promising to hold a referendum on EU membership after the
next General Election, Mr Ghosn's warning is the latest note of caution from the
business world over the possibility of an exit. The investment banking giant
Goldman Sachs and the business lobby group CBI are among those who have also
recently spoken out about such a move.

Mr Ghosn, who was in the UK to launch Nissan's new Qashqai model, said it was
not possible to "consider the UK independently of its environment. If the UK's
part of Europe, it's a completely different situation if the UK's not part of
Europe".

He told the BBC he was "not worried about Sunderland. Sunderland is a very
competitive plant, it's a very productive plant and it's a European plant based
in the UK". Mr Ghosn also said he did not think a departure from the EU was the
"most probable scenario".

Fiona Hall, Liberal Democrat MEP for the North-east, said Mr Ghosn's warning was
"one we cannot afford to ignore", adding that Nissan's "importance to the
North-east can hardly be overstated."

In September, Michael Sherwood and Richard Gnodde, the co-chief executives of
Goldman Sachs International, warned that European banks will exit London "in
very short order" if the UK does leave, and that they would have to look at
moving a significant number of staff.

The employers' group the CBI has urged the UK to not leave the EU, with
director-general John Cridland saying on Monday that "British business is
unequivocal; the single market is fundamental to our future". However, he did
add that the EU was "not perfect and there is growing unease about the creeping
extension of EU authority. Europe has to become more open, competitive and
outward looking".

In contrast, the former CBI director-general and ex-trade minister, Lord Jones
of Birmingham, this week attacked the EU as a "job destroyer", writing in The
Times that Britain must be prepared to quit in order to be "a globally
competitive economy worthy of the name".

Mr Cameron has said he wants the UK to stay in the EU, but only after changes
are made to its terms of membership.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

WEEKEND BRIEFING...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 201 words


235mph

Maximum wind-speeds of Typhoon Haiyan after the super-storm - shown in the
satellite image above - struck the Philippines yesterday

'On a bad day, Ukip was like the rugby club coach on the annual trip to the
seaside'

Nigel Farage speaks frankly about the failings of the UK Independence Party

$100,000

Top-price ticket to see former president George W Bush address the Messianic
Jewish Bible Institute

POLITICS

£17m

Windfall that Jeremy Hunt, Secretary of State for Health, is expected to receive
if the sale of Hotcourses, the education listings service of which he owns 49
per cent, goes ahead

FASHION

Happiness is a hamlet of one's own

Johnnie Boden, the Old Etonian whose fashion catalogue business has made him a
£320m fortune, owns a small hamlet in Dorset, which he bought for £4.24m.

POLITICS

294

MPs, excluding the Speaker, present in the Commons at 9.30am for the EU
referendum bill debate

DIARY

TODAY

RUSSIAN COSMONAUTS TAKE SOCHI 2014 WINTER OLYMPIC TORCH ON A SIX-HOUR SPACEWALK

TOMORROW

REMEMBRANCE SUNDAY CEREMONY AT THE CENOTAPH

MONDAY

CLIFF RICHARD RELEASES HIS 100TH ALBUM

TRIAL OF PERVEZ MUSHARRAF BEGINS IN PAKISTAN

EU AND US BEGIN SECOND ROUND OF TALKS OVER TRANSATLANTIC TRADE AND INVESTMENT
PARTNERSHIP

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Defenders of the vulnerable: salute the Commons' dullest committee;
The Diary

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 534 words


In an obscure corner of the parliamentary process sits a committee called the
Statutory Instruments Joint Committee. I salute the MPs on it, because the job
of reading through obscure regulations to check that they are procedurally
correct might be about as exciting as a wet afternoon in Hitchin. There is no
political or personal reward in this work, and yet these unsung heroes meet,
deliberate and issue reports of resounding dullness, listing the statutory
instruments they have examined and to which, in most cases, they have given the
okay - most, but not all.

Buried near the bottom of their most recent report there is an excoriating
assessment of a statutory instrument from the Justice Department, amending the
regulations that allow debt collectors to enter homes and seize property. It
concerns the question of whether vulnerable people should be protected from
having their belongings seized.

The Ministry of Justice agrees that they should, but since there is no official
definition of "vulnerable", it proposed to rewrite its National Standards for
Enforcement Agencies to make it obligatory for debt collectors to be trained to
recognise vulnerability and to decide on the spot whether someone is vulnerable
or not. In other words, someone mentally ill could have debt collectors turn up,
decide they look okay and strip their home of movable belongings.

That will not do, says the Statutory Instruments Committee. To quote its
exquisitely worded conclusion: "The committee accordingly reports the use of the
undefined expression 'vulnerable person' as calling for elucidation incompletely
provided in the department's memorandum."

Showing a little respect

Yesterday's Commons session, which deliberated on whether to hold a referendum
on membership of the European Union, was unlike any other Friday sitting in
living memory. There was the impressive turnout, with 294 MPs plus the Speaker
in their places at 9.30am.

And there was the strange silence of James Wharton, the Conservative MP for
Stockton South, who tabled the private members' Bill. The 29-year-old was at one
point spotted having a whispered conversation with advisers, and had to be told
that only ministers are allowed to do that.

The Labour MP Mike Gapes frivolously suggested that David Cameron could solve
that problem by giving the youngster a job. Apart from that, there was not a
squeak out of Mr Wharton all morning. He listened while the grown-ups talked.

Wizard of Westminster

Tories in Westminster are holding a £100 "touch of the Orient" dinner, to which
guests have to turn up either in evening dress or in fancy dress with an eastern
theme. The party chairman, Grant Shapps, will be their special guest. He could
go as a Buddhist. He has, after all, been through at least one reincarnation, as
the internet wizard Michael Green.

Labour's air of civility

In the 1995 memoirs of John Cole, the former BBC political editor, there is a
passage in which he notes that Gordon Brown had stood aside for his "friend"
Tony Blair in 1994. "The leadership election which followed was conducted with a
civility that has not always attended such events in the past," it said. How
good they were at keeping up appearances back then.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

A wafer-thin majority - so don't mention the war with the Eurosceptics;
DONALD MACINTYRE'S SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 388 words


Is David Cameron getting more satirical? Asked about the abandoned "visa bond"
for foreign visitors, the Prime Minister told the CBI this had been Nick Clegg's
idea, adding patronisingly to appreciative titters: "He has lots of good ideas,
but this one is not one we are going ahead with." This so captured the tone of
Headmaster Cameron in Private Eye's "New Coalition Academy", that he must be a
secret fan.

Yesterday, however, he laid claim to a "deeply progressive" agenda. Since
Blairite types used this word to indicate a vaguely left of centre outlook, he
clearly felt the need to distance himself from his own headbangers.

Especially on the EU, which the CBI is in favour of. Cameron avoided it in his
set speech but was then asked about it by a woman who wondered how he would
ensure a "positive" debate "rather than just headlines from the Daily Mail". His
planned referendum, he insisted, wasn't a "short term tactical ploy" but a
cunning wheeze - as he didn't put it - to overcome the "wafer-thin" majority for
Britain's membership of an unreformed Europe.

Cameron, who stressed the need for better skills teaching, touted
government-backed "Catapult Centres". Was this somewhere pupils can perfect
their hand-eye co-ordination by deploying the weapons of choice for 1950s child
anti-heroes such as William and Dennis the Menace? No, they're where brilliant
hi-tech ideas become "commercial realities". And Ed Balls, to demonstrate his
desire for "consensus" - the shadow Chancellor outdid Cameron by using the term
nine times - said that the next Labour government would support them too, having
started them in the first place.

Balls wanted "a long term partnership" between government and business, saying:
"As??? Lord Mandelson concluded: 'Ministers and markets can and should mix???'"
In ancient times - a decade ago - Balls and Mandelson were deadly enemies. Since
their historic rapprochement, however, Balls is about the only shadow Cabinet
member who dares to mention Mandelson approvingly in public.

After Cameron's put down, we were thrilled that the next speaker would be the
Deputy Prime Minister. Except that it was Poland's, Jacek Rostowski. Like Clegg,
he went to Westminster School. Which doesn't quite explain why he spoke in more
elegant and faultless English than you ever hear from a British politician.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

I can win an EU vote, Cameron tells the CBI

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 297 words


David Cameron has reassured business leaders that he can win a Yes vote to
Britain remaining in the European Union and rejected their criticism that he is
playing politics by calling a referendum.

Addressing the CBI's annual conference in London yesterday, the Prime Minister
said his promise of a public vote by 2017 was a "long-term strategic choice for
Britain". Some businessmen have expressed concern that the move could end in
Britain's accidental exit from the 28-strong bloc. The CBI will campaign for
continued membership, which it says is worth between £62bn and £78bn a year to
the UK.

Mr Cameron admitted public support for EU membership is now "wafer thin",
conceding: "We haven't made the argument enough about why Europe matters and
frankly there are lots of things in the EU that badly need reform: it is too
costly; it is not flexible enough; it doesn't help our competitiveness enough.
It needs to change.

"I think that will be a much easier argument to win than the argument we would
have if we had an in/out referendum today," he added. "I sit round that European
Union table ... and I can see this organisation is going to change."

Striking an optimistic note, Mr Cameron said: "It will be a much more balanced
debate because we won't be arguing in/out on the status quo, we'll be arguing
about staying in a reformed EU with a better deal for Britain."

Ed Balls, the shadow Chancellor, told the conference that leaving the EU would
be "reckless, foolish and deeply damaging". He added: "We are clear that there
is no future for Britain in walking away from our biggest market - or
threatening to do so for reasons of internal party management."

John Cridland, the CBI director-general, said Mr Cameron's speech was "an
encouraging sign that we can work with Government".

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 4, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Britain must stay in the European Union - CBI

BYLINE: JAMES ASHTON Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 369 words


Employers' group the CBI will today use its annual conference in London to make
the case for continued membership of the European Union.

It argues that Britain can best benefit from increased global trade flows from
inside the economic bloc, and will present research that says each household in
Britain benefits from membership to the tune of £3,000 a year.

The CBI is the latest group to come out in favour of EU membership - while
arguing for a renegotiation of Britain's role - as industry prepares for the
in-out referendum promised by David Cameron if the Conservatives win the general
election in 18 months.

A survey found that eight out of 10 CBI members, including 77 per cent of small
and medium-sized firms, said they would vote for Britain to remain in the EU if
the referendum was held tomorrow. That is despite drawbacks such as creeping
regulation and waning competitiveness. "We have looked beyond the political
rhetoric to examine the pros and cons of EU membership, and British business is
unequivocal; the single market is fundamental to our future," said John
Cridland, the director-general of the CBI. "But the EU isn't perfect and there
is a growing unease about the creeping extension of EU authority. Europe has to
become more open, competitive and outward looking if we are to grow and create
opportunities and jobs for all our citizens."

Research for the CBI found that EU membership contributed 4-5 per cent of gross
domestic product, or £62-78bn, a year. The report said that Britain benefits
from access to a European market of 500m people, which has also helped to cement
London as a top financial services destination. But it has suffered from lack of
control over regulations such as the Working Time Directive and onerous health
and safety rules.

As EU members such as Germany and France examine a banking union and closer
federal ties, the CBI recommends modernising the single market. It suggests
implementing a market for services and striking trade deals with the US and
Japan.

Alternative routes, such as breaking away to follow the model of Norway or
Switzerland, or going it alone with the World Trade Organisation, would be
likely to reduce influence and increase tariffs, it adds.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 4, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

The passions of Sven: could this finally explain 2006?;
MATTHEW NORMAN ON MONDAY

BYLINE: MATTHEW NORMAN

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 762 words


The British public owes Sven-Goran Eriksson an apology for a cruel misjudgement.
The image of the Swede as an emotionless sort with the ice of his homeland's
fjords clogging in his veins, based on an interview manner to make that equally
unlikely swordsman John Major sound like Russell Brand's zanier uncle, is
revealed as nonsense by his autobiography.

The Daily Mail's extracts from Sven: My Story reveal the volcanic passions that
fuelled the former England manager's relationship with Nancy Dell'Olio. Having
lured Nancy away from her Italian husband, Giancarlo, in 1998, he soon "began to
feel a little cramped by her??? She had to be the centre of attention, and I
wasn't used to that in a woman". Although this Andrea Dworkin manqué concedes
that "at the start,

I was probably in love with her" (you have to love that "probably"; such
ardour), "before long I began wondering if I had done the right thing in taking
her away from Giancarlo".

To Sven, it was like taking a player on loan with an option to sign him
permanently, before being disappointed and sending him back. So when Giancarlo
told him he wanted to give the marriage another go, Sven replied: "Absolutely."

Curiously, however, Nancy felt she had some say on the matter, so Sven
heroically put up with her until 2006, when his failure with England allowed him
to flee her and return to Sweden.

Football scholars may now wish to review his 2006 World Cup campaign, asking
this: was the bizarre selection of the untried 17-year-old Theo Walcott a
cunning ruse to get him the sack, and spare this chivalric paradigm from the
loan signing who refused to return to her old club?

If you judge a Tory stalking horse by his friends ...

Meanwhile, the career hopes of "the Tory Obama" have risen sharply. Fears
mounted for Adam Afriyie's future when his fiendishly sophisticated leadership
aspirations came to public notice in the summer, and again recently when his
call for a 2014 referendum on EU membership seemed to fall on deaf Conservative
ears.

How foolish the sneerers feel now, with no fewer than four Tory MPs pledging to
vote for his amendment. Their quality is just about as impressive as their
number. Rentaquote champion Peter Bone is one, and his fellow garrulous
right-wing hyperbore Philip Davies another. All it needs is the support of the
late Anthony Beaumont-Dark, and we'll have Adam and his fabled "entourage of
nannies and helpers" tucked up comfortably in Downing Street for Christmas.

We choose to go to New York, not because it is easy???

Great to see David Miliband paying us a state visit in the style of his mentor,
Mr Tony Blair. Now based in New York, running the charity International Rescue,
David appeared on Andrew Marr's sabbath show to adduce JFK in support of a
stronger European Union. He did not trot out "Ich bin ein Berliner" - though,
since it literally translates as "I am a doughnut", he could have got away with
it. But he did describe his charity's efforts for displaced Syrian refugees as
"the kind of issue that is energising me, inspiring me, challenging me..." This
is vital and noble work, and if he makes it sound like occupational therapy to
help him cope with the trauma of losing to Ed, we'll pass lightly over that.

A dog-whistler that's cheap at half the price

David also offered support for his brother's focus on the living wage. With the
employed poor a potentially fruitful electoral tree for Labour, it is no
surprise to find David Cameron so sensitive to the issue. Paying the Aussie
dog-whistler Lynton Crosby a reported £550,000 per annum, from January, to
mastermind Tory election strategy is inspired messaging, and no gift at all to
the Opposition. Even if it seems an immodest stipend to the burgeoning numbers
in fuel poverty and using food banks, they must remember that Lynton will be
giving up much lucrative lobbying work, not necessarily for tobacco firms, to
give us his party trick of inciting hysteria about the threat posed by
immigrants.

Perhaps Obama will quit and trigger a by-election

The woman who blazed the disappointed politico's Westminster-to-New York trail
on David's behalf addresses an incumbent Democratic president. In The Sun on
Sunday, Louise Mensch looks ahead to happier days when Barack Obama vacates the
White House. "In barely two years' time," writes Louise, "there will be another
president." No there won't. Barring a JFK-type catastrophe, the next
inauguration is in January 2017, more than three years away. If Louise ever
tires of the States, the Countdown role once filled by Carol Vorderman may yet
bring her home.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Leave the EU? Many don't know we're in it

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 153 words


Some people are not sure whether the UK is part of the European Union, the
Electoral Commission said yesterday as it examined the question that voters
could be asked in an EU-membership referendum.

Its warning comes a week ahead of a Commons debate on a Bill paving the way to a
referendum on whether to remain in the EU. David Cameron has promised a vote on
membership by 2017 if the Conservatives win the next election. The Bill suggests
voters should be asked: "Do you think that the United Kingdom should be a member
of the European Union?"

Testing the question to check it was "clear", the Commission discovered "a few"
people did not know whether Britain was in the EU. Voters could be asked:
"Should the UK remain a member of the EU or leave the EU?" Or : "Should the UK
remain a member of the EU?"

Jenny Watson, the Commission chair said: "Any referendum question must be as
clear as possible so voters understand."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

City chiefs say UK must stay in 'reformed' EU

BYLINE: JAMIE DUNKLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 323 words


City leaders have called for Britain to remain a part of the European Union but
insisted that the 28-member bloc must be reformed.

Ahead of a likely referendum on the issue after the next election, chief
executives, chairmen, directors and partners across the Square Mile have warned
that an exit from the EU would damage the economy.

In a survey of more than 100 business leaders, 84 per cent said they wanted the
UK to remain within the EU and 90 per cent agreed that it helps domestic
businesses compete with rivals across the world.

However, the research by TheCityUK, an organisation that promotes Britain's
financial services industry, also underlined the desire for reform. Some 65 per
cent of those surveyed believe regulatory change is needed while 56 per cent
view the volume of red tape in Europe as one of their biggest hurdles.

James Nixon, the chief economist at TheCityUK, said: "The growth in financial
and related professional services in this country over the last two decades is
closely linked to the UK's membership of the EU. The attractiveness of the UK as
the 'gateway to Europe' means the UK enjoys very significant net inflows of
foreign direct investment.

"Our research has shown the benefits of EU membership are numerous for our
respondents, not least in the gains we make from trade, increased competition
and by providing access to the world's largest market."

The survey also explored the benefits of EU membership, as perceived by
companies. Ease of access to customers, a single regulatory framework for
financial services and cross-border trading were named as the most significant
reasons by the respondents.

Chris Cummings, the chief executive of TheCityUK, added: "We know from our wider
public opinion research that matters of immigration and youth unemployment are
far more pressing in voters' minds than EU reform. However, it will be voters
across the country that will decide the outcome of any referendum."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Merkel's new EU treaty plan strengthens UK's hand

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 285 words


David Cameron's hopes of getting a "new deal" for Britain from the EU have been
given a boost by growing signs that Angela Merkel wants a new EU treaty.

The German Chancellor is said to want to mark her third and probably final term
by enshrining fiscal discipline inside the 17-nation eurozone in the EU's
governing treaties, to protect Germany from future demands to bail out weaker
economies.

Although such a treaty might not affect the UK directly, it would require the
formal backing of all 28 EU members. That would open the door to Mr Cameron to
seek what he has called a "new settlement" for Britain before putting it to the
in/out referendum on UK membership by the end of 2017.

British ministers believe the Government's chances of securing the return of
some powers from Brussels to London would be enhanced if a new treaty were under
discussion. They fear that Mr Cameron's shopping list might be dismissed out of
hand if he lacked the bargaining power of a full-scale treaty negotiation.

Ms Merkel may reveal her EU treaty plans at a summit of European leaders in
December. Final decisions would be taken after next May's European Parliament
elections.

However, her plan faces strong opposition from countries including France and
Ireland, which would both have to hold a referendum to approve a new treaty. If
Mr Cameron made unrealistic demands, other EU members could go ahead with an
agreement short of a formal treaty without Britain, as they did when he vetoed a
"fiscal compact" two years ago.

UK ministers are scaling down expectations of how many functions might be
"repatriated" amid concern that any "new deal" might disappoint Conservative
Eurosceptics and not win the backing of the public.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Our leaders have always misled us about the EU;
Benefit tourism

BYLINE: ANDREAS WHITTAM-SMITH

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 877 words


That a great number of immigrants from the rest of the European Union were
settling here purely to benefit from our welfare system was always implausible.
I say that as somebody who would have to think very hard about which way to vote
in a referendum on whether Britain should remain a member.

However, it is common sense that moving permanently to a foreign land, either
alone or with your family, necessarily requires a high degree of
self-confidence. You must believe that, yes, you could master a new language,
that you could fit in with different customs and become self-sufficient far away
from where you were born and raised. And such self-belief will usually be
accompanied by a strong desire to work.

So I confess that I was not the least bit surprised by the report released by
the European Commission on Monday that showed that fears that there was
large-scale benefit tourism were unjustified. In the dry language of the report,
"non-active EU migrants represent a very small share of the total population in
each Member State. They account for between 0.7 per cent and 1.0 per cent of the
overall EU population". The notable exceptions are Belgium (3 per cent), Cyprus
(4.1 per cent), Ireland (3 per cent) and Luxembourg (13.9 per cent). In this
country, EU citizens made fewer than 38,000 out of the 1.4 million jobless
benefit claims recorded during 2011 - a proportion of 2.7 per cent.

Moreover, on average EU migrants are more likely to be in employment than
nationals living in the same country. Why? Because they are young and, as
everyday observations tell us, willing to work hard. So what did Downing Street
have to say when this unpalatable news came through? There was, it insisted,
"widespread and understandable public concern". But note that Downing Street
didn't state that the European Commission findings were mistaken.

In cases where actual facts turn up to show that the Government is wrong, it is
hard to know whether ministers have been suffering from self-delusion or whether
they have deliberately allowed a mistaken idea to take hold - or whether, as I
shall show in relation to Europe, they have been purposefully misleading the
public.

Go back to the very beginning. The White Paper that was issued in July 1971 in
preparation for Britain's application to become a member asserted that there was
"no question of any erosion of essential national sovereignty", adding that
there was to be a "sharing and an enlargement of individual national
sovereignties in the general interest". In addition it was stated that "the
Common Law will remain the basis of our legal system, and our Courts will
continue to operate as they do at present". Almost all of this, signed off by a
Cabinet that included Mrs Thatcher, was wrong. And I think the authors must have
known it was. Indeed, a year later, just before we formally made our entry on 1
January 1973, the heads of Government of the existing European Community said
that "the Member States??? the driving wheels of European construction, declare
their intention of converting their entire relationship into a European Union
before the end of the decade".

Moreover, the free movement of workers within the EU, in other words, migration,
has always been a feature. So here we are, in 2013, 55 years since unimpeded
migration between member states was first established as a principle in the
Treaty of Rome, bleating on about continental citizens lawfully settling among
us.

If the White Paper was, frankly, a lie, the opt-out we secured from the freedom
of movement for community citizens in the Single European Act of 1986, signed by
Mrs Thatcher, was a delusion. It took the form of a General Declaration appended
to the Treaty. However, it was not legally binding and the Commission never
shared the British interpretation. It was then, by the way, that we agreed to a
system of majority voting in place of agreement by unanimity.

In effect, for the first 25 years of British membership, the governments of the
day were intent on shielding voters from understanding how much sovereignty we
had lost. There were always those, however, who saw clearly what was going on.
As long ago as 1960, when British entry was first discussed, Hugh Gaitskell, the
Labour leader, memorably observed: "Now we must be clear about this, it does
mean the end of Britain as an independent nation-state. I make no apology for
repeating it, the end of a thousand years of history. You may say: 'All right
let it end.' But, my goodness, it's a decision that needs a little care and
thought." Then 26 years later, the Single European Act was approved by the
Commons. But Labour voted against and 17 Eurosceptic Conservative MPs also
opposed it. That rebellion was the start of something.

By the time Parliament was called to approve the Maastricht Treaty in 1993,
Conservative Euroscepticism had multiplied. The Prime Minister, John Major,
called the rebels "the dispossessed and the never-possessed". Since then, the
Conservative Party has played a double game, appearing hostile to Europe and its
iniquities in front of the cameras but at the same time privately wishing to
remain a member. That is the light in which the manufactured row about benefits
tourism should be seen.

a.whittamsmith@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Is Ukip going to take a lead from the French?;
Europe's far right

BYLINE: KATHERINE BUTLER

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 895 words


When even Tommy Robinson thinks it is time to cut his losses, you know the
extreme right are dead-enders, more figures of comedy than fear. So, that's OK
then. British politics gives its voters an assortment of centrists on a
respectable spectrum from energy boss- baiting Red Ed to bedroom-taxing Tories
from which to choose.

But if we look at what's happening across the channel, complacency might seem
premature. The far-right Front National pulled off a victory on Sunday that is
potentially traumatic for French national politics. In a small Provencal town
called Brignoles, Le Pen's candidate in a by-election destroyed the incumbent
left and then beat the conservatives in a run-off.

OK, it was only a local council by-election. But the breakthrough is a marker
for a profound shift. An opinion poll last week for the first time put the FN in
the lead over both the Socialists and the centre-right for local and European
elections next spring. A quarter of voters say they would vote FN.

The Front's rise means Marine Le Pen has her eye on the Elysée Palace in 2017.
In the meantime, the mainstream parties will race each other to the bottom in
order to articulate views they believe will woo back FN voters.

Amid unending recession and Francois Hollande's unpopularity, the debate is
already raging over immigration and specifically those migrants whom the FN are
targeting in their campaign for next year's polls: Roma gypsies. These
unfortunates number about 20,000 in France: barely a blip on the radar. But they
have become the lightning rod for all kinds of complaints, from unemployment and
"insecurity", to the perceived loss of French sovereignty. Their visibility in
squalid camps has made them easy targets as "the big other".

It is a measure of the panic over the FN on both the right and the left that
Manuel Valls, the Socialist Interior Minister, could get away with saying that
the Roma should be taken to the borders and kicked out. They "have lifestyles
very different from ours," he said. This racism, worthy of Jean-Marie Le Pen in
his Fascist heyday, caused uproar. But 77 per cent of French voters thought he
was right to say it, polls showed.

From January, Romanians and Bulgarians will gain full freedom to move to the UK.
Whatever the actual numbers of new migrants who arrive, Britain is unlikely to
be spared a similar Ukip-led attack about an invasion of benefit claimants and
criminals. But could Ukip's political fortunes also mirror the FN's? There are
enormous differences.

FN leader Marine Le Pen, like Nigel Farage, wants to pull out of the EU so that
France can miraculously emerge as an economic powerhouse. Incoherently, she is
(unlike Ukip) also anti-globalisation and keen on nationalising "strategic"
industries.

What Farage and Le Pen share is that they are the sanitised, respectable faces
if not of extremism, then of extreme populism. Marine Le Pen has rebranded the
party founded by her father in 1972, replacing the skinheads and neo-Nazis that
made the FN a pariah, with smooth professionals. She's now threatening to sue
anyone who calls it "extreme" right.

Both parties also appeal to a group which would have been put off by the
traditional language of extremism, but comprise what Alain Delon, one-time
French screen idol, now a national treasure and a newly-outed FN supporter,
calls the fed-up ("ras-le-bol"). They apparently yearn for a mythical land where
solutions are simple, tax is lower yet public services are better and where
everything will improve once they, and not some "tyrants" in Brussels, "control
our own borders".

It is hard to imagine Ukip's eccentrics emulating the FN's forecast advances.
Yet having scored the promise of an EU referendum, the party has become a wild
card. Ukip is given more credibility than it deserves by many on the left who
hope they will split the Tory vote. And watch them being wheeled out for
"balance" whenever immigration or anything to do with Europe is discussed on the
BBC in coming months.

Even if the Faragists implode under the weight of their own Bongo-Bongo- land,
misogynist idiocies, the dog-whistle has sounded. If Ukip's race-tinged populism
sets the tone over the next wave of EU migration, it won't be just because it is
given house-room in the political space - that's democracy - but because the
other parties are too cowardly to challenge them effectively.

Boris Johnson warned at the weekend against demonising Romanians, having
previously fretted about an new influx of "rough-sleepers" after January. I
wouldn't expect a Tory mayor to admit that the misery caused to low-income
workers by obscene house prices is the fault of the welcome extended to
billionaire property investors from abroad and not a few extra Big Issue sellers
from Romania. But fear of Ukip has made the British left too timid to challenge
the myths either. Even Ed Miliband is promising a new immigration bill that
enshrines "secure control of our borders".

It is in a climate where immigrant-demonising talk moves to a panicked
centre-ground that it becomes acceptable for a minister to contemplate something
as shameful as physically dumping families at the borders. Britain prides itself
on a more enlightened attitude to migration than France. But in both places,
it's easy to say you are no longer an extremist when everyone else is wearing
your clothes.

Twitter: @ButlerKatherine

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Pull out of the EU? We'd just be trading one set of problems for another;
OUTLOOK

BYLINE: JAMES MOORE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 943 words


To listen to eurosceptics, you'd think pulling Britain out of the EU would
overnight turn it into the land of milk and honey. Au contraire, says the
Engineering Employers Federation, the manufacturers trade body that enlisted the
help of Ken Clarke to put its case yesterday.

Not the best move it could have made, that one. Mr Clarke may be a heavyweight,
but he has been ploughing a lonely furrow in the Conservative Party for years
now.

Those arguing for Britain to stay in could use a fresher advocate from the
Right, because it is a case that needs making.

Today the Government's Business Task Force will publish a report, Cut EU Red
Tape, under the auspices of Michael Fallon's bit of the Department for Business
Innovation and Skills.

Good, you may say. But a central point made by the EEF still needs to be heard
amid the increasingly ferocious assaults on Brussels and its bureaucrats coming
for the other side. It is that the EU is still Britain's major trading partner
and, despite what sceptics would have you believe, pulling out won't magically
create billions of pounds' worth of deals with the tigers in the East.

Meanwhile, if the UK pushed the button, it would presumably still want to
negotiate access to the European single market as a member of the European
Economic Area à la Switzerland and Norway. Which have to comply with all sorts
of EU rules to get that access, without getting a vote on any of them. It's true
that they have a seat at the table, but nobody listens to them.

As for regulations and red tape the businessmen want rid of? It's a fact that
the EU is rather good at coming up with all sorts of unnecessary rubbish.
Reforming it would be a good idea, although Britain has seldom helped itself on
this front by shouting and screaming from the sidelines as opposed to building
alliances with those of a similar mind.

But Whitehall, responsible for much of the gold-plating of EU rules that has
gone on in the past, is also a dab hand with red tape.And the business community
would still have it to deal with whatever the result of an eventual referendum.

Capping payday loan charges the way ahead

The Payday loans industry scented a PR coup over the weekend. Which? magazine,
you see, launched a broadside against bank overdraft charges.

Hear, hear, said the Consumer Finance Association without a trace or irony or
any recognition of the fact that Which? has hardly been a fan of its members -
as evidenced by it being a notable supporter of a cross-party charter launched
yesterday to "stop the payday loan rip-off".

The charter calls for an end to payday lenders handing out loans to people who
can't afford to pay them back. It includes demands that lenders stop loan
rollovers and "hidden or excessive charges". It also wants an end to the
practice of lenders raiding bank accounts without clients' knowledge, no more
"irresponsible advertising", and calls on lenders to promote free, independent
debt advice.

The CFA would probably say it agrees with some of those, although it would be
interesting to see just how irresponsible advertising is defined. However, while
the charter is all very well, and has garnered a lot of support, it stops short
of calling for most obvious way to curtail any "rip-off". That is to follow the
lead of other countries and impose a cap on what lenders (and this could include
the banks) charge. Such a measure is anathema to free marketeers, but then the
payday loans market isn't anything like an effectively functioning market, as
the Office of Fair Trading has made clear.

Some worry that a cap would restrict the supply of credit to those that need it.
But in reality, the cost of payday loans today means that they are a thoroughly
bad thing for most people. They're also extremely easy and quick to access,
which isn't necessarily a good thing. Today, the industry makes vast profits,
fuelling more ads, driving rapid growth and more profits, fuelling yet more ads
and so on.

Something that would halt this cycle is overdue. The charter, while not
unwelcome, isn't it. But a cap on charges might be.

Markets show maturity in face of the US crisis

The FTSE 100 index opened the week by jogging along happily enough, which is
basically what it's been doing for the past three months. Most of its peers
kicked off the week by slipping a bit, but only marginally.

All this despite the fact that the world's biggest economy is spiralling towards
the world's biggest default as its politicians indulge themselves in a game of
the economic equivalent of Russian roulette.

The prevailing wisdom is that, faced with a situation like this, markets
inevitably grossly overreact, with prices swinging violently up and down as
panic takes hold.

What's going on? Well, while the political turbulence Stateside is hardly
welcome, it is not at all unexpected. The character of the fundamentalist Tea
Party Republicans who have caused it all (and polls suggest that while the
American people don't exactly love the Democrats, they know who they blame) is
not new. The big dates are all in the diary. Markets dislike surprises and the
only real surprise here would have been if Congress didn't decide to indulge in
a Mexican stand-off.

Markets basically believe that a deal will be done even if it goes down to the
wire. They are showing a surprising maturity, one that is in stark contrast to
the behaviour of American politicians. Whether their confidence is justified is
another issue. Those with spread-betting accounts could be forgiven for taking
out short positions were they do conduct a little research on Texas senator Ted
Cruz, the Tea Party fundamentalist and leading figure in the US Government
shutdown.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Anyone know a handy conspiracy theorist?;
MATTHEW NORMAN ON MONDAY

BYLINE: MATTHEW NORMAN

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 762 words


In another fearsome instance of Jungian synchronicity, reports the Sunday People
in not precisely those words, one Natalie Rowe has had her home raided by police
days shortly before the publication of an autobiography in which she will share
further memories of a youthful George Osborne (pictured). Ms Rowe, under her
professional sobriquet "Miss Pain", is the sex worker in the second most
embarrassing photo featuring George (after that haughty
New-Romantic-meets-Regency-Dandy Bullingdon snap).

The police were apparently hunting for drugs (none were found) rather than
manuscripts. "I'd like to think the fact that I've been unfairly targeted has
nothing to do with the fact that my book is about to be published, which happens
to be very embarrassing for the Chancellor," Ms Rowe says. She insists that she
is not into conspiracy theories. But many are and you can't help wishing that
one such theorist was newly installed at the Home Office, and in a position to
investigate the Met raid. In the regrettable absence of such a minister, perhaps
Norman Baker might take a little look?

Some sympathy for Paul Dacre

You spend ages waiting for Paul Dacre's public defence of "the man who hated
Britain", and then it arrives twice. On Saturday, in both his own title, the
Daily Mail, and The Guardian, Dacre finally lifted his head above the parapet to
rail against the evil cabal of lefties sneering at the values of his loyal army
of readers. Yet he did make one decent point. "Orchestrating this bile was ...
Alastair Campbell," he wrote. "Fair-minded readers will wonder why a man who
helped drive Dr David Kelly to his death ... is given so much airtime by the
BBC." As will non-Mail fans such as Robert Harris, who last week described Ali
as "the only man who can make one feel sympathetic to Paul Dacre". I'm all for
positive discrimination, but the state broadcaster's indulgence of suspected war
criminals takes a noble principle too far.

Does Tom Watson need a hug?

Concern mounts for that heroic anti-Murdoch freedom fighter Tom Watson. Since
resigning as Labour's campaign co-ordinator in July, the once sociable Tom has
become alarmingly isolated. One minute, the only Labour MP to back Adam
Afriyie's early EU referendum masterstroke, the next, the only one to attend
Damian McBride's book launch... Next week, Tom could be the only Labour MP
calling for Jack Straw to be rewarded with the newly created Dukedom of
Blackburn for any part he played in facilitating the rendition of terrorist
suspects. Tom seems terribly lonely these days. So if you see him isolated in
the Stranger's Bar, go over and give him a bear hug. No, Eric Joyce, not you. No
good can come of that.

Thatcher was 'a love' of Aitken's life

Whether or not Tom was the only Labour MP at its launch, I enjoyed the
serialisation of the new book in which Jonathan Aitken pretends to have known
Mrs Thatcher more intimately than anyone else. No one will doubt the reformed
con's word on anything, let alone speculate that his reference to Carol Thatcher
as "one of the loves of my life" was possibly a mistranscription of "someone I
slept with for as long as I thought it might help my career, and ditched the
moment it became inescapably plain that her mother loathed me beyond
redemption".

Power struggle at 'The Lady' to hit the stage

I am intrigued to hear that the amusing power struggle at The Lady of a few
years back between the then editor Rachel Johnson (inset) and the owner, Julia
Budworth, is being turned into a musical play. Casting details remain scarce,
though Liz Smith is thought to be the first choice for Ms B, who referred to her
editor as "penis obsessed", while Anthea Turner's agent fails to deny that she
is slated for Rachel. How far off-off-off-Theatreland the run might be is also
unknown. Orkney's third largest theatre is an early favourite.

After Iain Duncan Smith ...

If Anthea declines, it may be because she has hopes of a front-bench job. After
the promotions of Labour's Gloria De Piero and Tories Anna Soubry and Esther
McVey (not forgetting Gordon Brown's attempt to hire Fiona Phillips), Anthea is
one of very few breakfast telly titans to be overlooked. David Cameron is
expected to correct this next summer by making her a Defence minister and
appointing Baron (formerly Mr) Motivator as Work and Pensions Secretary.
"Motivator's no genius," a Downing Street source said last night, "but, unlike
the incumbent, he does not define angioplasty as 'that woman who sang in the
Eurovision Song Contest for Ireland'. After Iain Duncan Smith, that's good
enough for us."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 11, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Leveson admits he made one big slip-up;
McSmith OUR MAN IN WESTMINSTER

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 687 words


Lord Justice Leveson makes no apology for the bulk of the report he produced on
the future of newspapers, but under questioning from MPs, he did own up to one
regret. It was the passage on the history of The Independent, in which someone
called Brett Straub was named among the newspaper's founders.

I recall spending an intense hour or so last November working out who the hell
Brett Straub might be. I eventually concluded from an examination of the history
of the Wikipedia entry on The Independent, and by searching Facebook, that he
was a recent graduate from a university in Pomona, in California.

The insertion of his name was not an "error", as Sir Brian Leveson claimed
yesterday: it was a deliberate act of mischief. A friend added Mr Straub's name
to The Independent's Wikipedia entry as a joke, and there it stayed for several
months, until somebody else removed it. During those months, the article was cut
and pasted into the Leveson Report, unchecked. That "allowed much sport to be
made of me and my report", Sir Brian said ruefully.

Naturally, no apology has yet been made to The Independent.

Old Labour's Dead End Street

Ray Davies (inset), leader of the Kinks and the first man to get a reference to
the Inland Revenue into the British pop charts - as in "the taxman's taken all
my dough" - regretted the passing of the former Labour leader John Smith, the
last front-line politician to say out loud people should pay taxes without
complaining and be proud to do so.

"One morning in May of 1994, I was driving through the tastefully landscaped
Surrey countryside when the radio news broke that John Smith had died," he wrote
in his newly published memoir, Americana. "For some reason I was so deeply moved
that I stopped at a picture-postcard church in Ockham to go inside and say a
prayer for the deceased Socialist. It was then that I realised that I was in
effect saying a prayer mourning the loss of the Labour movement that my father
had brought me up to believe in."

New Labour left the old Kink cold. Tony Blair, he thought, "looked, preached and
behaved like a Tory". In politics, evidently, he was not what one might call a
dedicated follower of fashion.

Church kicks up a stink on bats

Parishioners of St Hilda's Church at Ellerburn, near the North York Moors, will
soon be relieved of the awful stink caused by bats that live in the roof. "The
smell is appalling, it's a combination of ammonia from the urine and a musty
smell from the droppings that catches at the back of the throat," churchwarden
Liz Cowley told the BBC. Now, at last, Sir Tony Baldry, who speaks for the
Church Commissioners, has told the Commons that Natural England, the quango
responsible for protecting bats, is granting the church a licence to block their
access point. "Churches are not field barns: they are places of worship," Sir
Tony told MPs. Quite so.

Bercow can do the maths

Yesterday, a Labour MP, Huw Irranca-Davies, pointed out in the Commons that the
Environment Secretary, Owen Paterson, had told MPs that 100,000 homes a week are
being connected to broadband, courtesy of his Government, whereas the minister
responsible for broadband rollout had used a more plausible figure of 10,000.
That is a tenfold difference, he remarked.

"It is extraordinarily public-spirited of you to help me with the arithmetic, in
case I was not able to manage it for myself," Speaker John Bercow replied, with
a hint of sarcasm. He added that the onus was on ministers to get their figures
right. MPs moved straight on to their next debate, entitled "adult literacy and
numeracy".

Last in line to become PM?

Tory MP Adam Afriyie seems to be alone in seeing a future prime minister in
himself. His latest wheeze, to push for an EU referendum before the general
election, has yet to pick up support. The political editor of the Daily Mail,
James Chapman, even took to Twitter to broadcast an overheard comment: "There'd
have to be a fairly bad nuclear war before Adam Afriyie became prime minister."
If you could buy shares in this man at the price others think he is worth and
sell them at his self-evaluation, you would make a fortune.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 9, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

We heard Nick Clegg's apocalyptic rhetoric on Europe loud and clear;
DONALD MACINTYRE'S SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 369 words


Nick Clegg's first words were "I hope you can all hear me"; puzzlingly, since he
was speaking through a microphone and there were only a couple of dozen of us in
the audience.

Indeed, we were in an East London machine tool factory so clean and
under-populated that for a wild moment you wondered if the Liberal Democrats had
suddenly come into the money and splashed out on a pop-up shopfloor just so its
leader could look visionary in front of something European called an optical
sorter.

But fine a setting as the Buhler Sortex plant was for spelling out why we need
the EU, why was he so far from base, since he had to hasten back to a Cabinet
meeting?

Come to think of it, was that it - a convenient way of avoiding too many
questions on Norman Baker's conspiracy theories? Or could he have wanted
somewhere conveniently out of the way to road-test his rhetoric? Which he
certainly needs to do. Mixed metaphor alert! "This idea that we pull up the
drawbridge, drift away from our neighbourhood??? only to float around in some
new network of relationships, is a nonsense." Better - just - to have stuck to
the script which said "pull up the anchor". Instead, we thought, not for the
first time, of Clegg building castles in the air.

"Let me be absolutely clear: leaving the EU would be economic suicide," he said,
before adding: "You cannot overstate the damage it would do to British
livelihoods and prosperity." Hang on, Nick, you can and you just did. We're
totally on your side, but isn't "suicide" just a teeny weeny bit exaggerated?

That said, the soundbites were pretty good: "Ludicrous mythmaking of the
isolationists"; "Politics masquerading as patriotism"; "Criminals cross borders.
So must we".

And he was saying what Ed Miliband and David Cameron almost certainly think but
dare not say at present - even if he had an apocalyptic way with words: "The day
I dread - the day I never hope to see - is a time when it is all too late:
Britain has stumbled out of the EU, and we look back at those days and say we
should have done more."

Can it be long before we see pro-European Liberal Democrat posters modelled on
the old World War I recruiting ads: "Daddy, what did you do in the run-up to the
Great Referendum?"

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 8, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

At last - the case for Britain in Europe;
Politics

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 894 words


In a climate in which Nigel Farage has become the man to beat in next year's
European elections, Nick Clegg will do something rather daring today, and make
the most strongly pro-European speech by any party leader since 2010. His "call
to arms" in a letter urging British businesses and other institutions to
proclaim the benefits of EU membership is a timely use of his platform as Deputy
Prime Minister.

The constraints on David Cameron hardly need enumerating. True, the weekend
attempt by the ambitious Tory backbencher Adam Afriyie to force on Cameron an
in/out referendum on Europe ahead of the 2015 general election is struggling to
gain traction. But that's only because Cameron has already bowed to his
backbench dissidents by agreeing to support a probably fruitless Bill,
enshrining in law his promise of a referendum by 2017, which might actually be
derailed by the Afriyie amendment.

But while there is little in Clegg's speech that he would disagree with, Ed
Miliband has also for now forsaken any role as a champion of Britain in Europe -
a subject he hardly mentioned in his conference speech. While Labour politicians
argue that the voters are not talking about Europe, there is also the little
problem that it has not yet decided whether to follow Cameron by promising an
in/out referendum in the next parliament. As it would be continually reminded if
it chose to highlight the issue now.

As he will variously put it, Clegg is ready for - and confidently predicting -
an in/out referendum "when a serious change to Europe's rules, affecting the UK,
next arises" and in the event of "treaty change" - and one, of course, in which
the Lib Dems will be a "party of in". But while making a strong case for Britain
to lead the debate for necessary EU reform, he contrasts Cameron's approach of
unilateral negotiation, under the threat of an exit, and in terms under which
Tory "sceptics, emboldened and off the leash" may decide the outcome does not
justify membership. In the process Clegg will cite as positive models the
leadership in Europe shown by Tony Blair and Margaret Thatcher.

The mention of Blair is unsurprising, if arguably a little exaggerated. The
mention of Thatcher seems stranger. In fact it is highly relevant. As every
red-blooded Europhobe knows, this autumn sees the 25th anniversary of Margaret
Thatcher's Bruges Speech, often seen as the starting point of the Tory backbench
slide towards one in favour of withdrawal, or at least of withdrawal unless
substantial powers are clawed back from Brussels. The Bruges Group, founded
within a few months of the speech being delivered and, while retaining close
links with the Conservatives, was also an intellectual mainspring of both Sir
James Goldsmith's short-lived Referendum Party, and Ukip itself.

Yet it's a fantasy to suppose that Margaret Thatcher envisaged any of these
developments when she made the speech. What's striking, on re-reading, is that
while it is a concerted effort to change the direction of the EU, it is one
launched from the heart of the EU rather than from its touchline. There is no
mention of unilateral reform or even of a two-speed Europe. Tory Eurosceptics
love to quote from it: "We have not successfully rolled back the frontiers of
the state in Britain, only to see them re-imposed at a European level with a
European super-state???." They ignore its unequivocal support for the single
market and her declaration that "Britain does not dream of some cosy, isolated
existence on the fringes of the European Community. Our destiny is in Europe, as
part of the Community."

At a recent European Parliament-convened anniversary discussion of the speech,
between Lord Powell, who was her most trusted No 10 official, and Sir Stephen
Wall, a key Foreign Office official at the time, Lord Powell was adamant that
Mrs Thatcher did not intend to start a Eurosceptic "chain reaction" in British
Conservatism. Of course her attitudes subsequently changed. But he implied that
her subsequent adoption as the figurehead of hardline anti-Europeanism in the
party, amid the trauma of her loss of office, was as much because she was
persuaded by others as that she persuaded them. And Lord Powell, who wrote the
speech, remains a convinced supporter of British EU membership. This is not
going to change the minds of Tory Eurosceptics. But it does set a context for
their constant invocation of Thatcher as their pathfinder.

So where does Clegg's speech leave Labour, now faced with a new temptation in
the shape of Afriyie's amendment? While there is no sign that Ed Miliband's is
one of them, there are siren voices in the shadow cabinet in favour of
embarrassing the Tories by supporting it. The case against them is overwhelming.
As Douglas Alexander has pointed out, it would hand the pro-EU Alex Salmond a
perfect target in next year's Scottish referendum. It might fail, given the lack
of support that Afriyie has attracted. And beside Clegg's ringing call today, it
would look even more opportunistic than otherwise.

Clegg's formulation on a referendum could probably be glossed into a Coalition
agreement with either Labour or the Tories. But what he has done decisively -
and not before time - is open the argument on the side of staying in. As he will
say, the "moderate and rational" pro-European voices have been too quiet, too
long.

d.macintyre@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             October 7, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Let's celebrate the 'Mail's' rampant multiculturalism;
MATTHEW NORMAN ON MONDAY

BYLINE: MATTHEW NORMAN

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 752 words


Our thanks to Alex Brummer, the Daily Mail's city editor, for a party
invitation. Alex has been writing about the "deplorable" suggestion, from The
Jewish Chronicle and elsewhere, that his title's depiction of Ralph Miliband as
an outsider whose loyalties lay beyond his adoptive land had a whiff of an
ancient anti-Semitic trope. His argument that if he, an observant Jew, chooses
to work there, the accusation is as persuasive as his later claim, in a radio
interview, that those of us on liberal papers who loath its treatment of the
Palestinians "demonise" not only Israel but "the broader Jewish community".
Since that homage to Mad Mel Phillips was elegantly skewered in a leader article
on Saturday, let us move to the invite. "The next time someone wants to accuse
the paper of anti-Semitism," Alex writes, "I have an invitation for them.

Join me in my office with other members of staff - Jewish and non-Jewish - as we
light the Chanukah freedom lights.That is part of our lives on a news floor
where different religions and cultures are celebrated." Ah yes, that rampant
Mail multiculturalism yet again. You wouldn't believe the excitement during Eid,
while editor Paul Dacre loves to don his trusty dhoti during Diwalhi. Anyway, if
any of us pitch up on 27 November to see Alex light the Menorah on the eve of
Chanukah, the do will need shifting to a larger function room. Perhaps Ed
Miliband himself, in a stab at bridge-building, will lead a candlelit procession
through the newsroom for a glass of kosher wine - preferably the ribald Palwin
No 11 (b) - in Mr Dacre's more capacious office?

Associated yes, but definitely not united

Apologies for last week's error when, in wondering why the Mail on Sunday
embarrassed Michael Gove by reporting his trip to a £2,500 per week Austrian fat
farm so soon after his wife became a Daily Mail columnist, I stated that the
internecine strife that plagues political parties is unimaginable between
brother editors at Associated. Since then, Mr Dacre has prominently featured a
report on the MoS raid on the memorial service, quoting the phrase "terrible
lapse of judgment" in the headline. Yesterday, MoS guv'nor Geordie Greig
unleashed Peter Hitchens, a reformed Trot, to ridicule the "man who hated
Britain" smear. This warfare is as unseemly now as it was unforeseeable then,
but sorry for misleading you all the same.

Adam can't: MP lacks the popular touch

While hopes of a Dacre-Greig rapprochement remain high (at Alex's Chanukah bash,
if not before), it is harder to imagine David Cameron making up with Adam
Afriyie, who plans to table an amendment demanding a pre-election referendum on
EU membership on 23 October (the anniversary of El Alamein; such subtle
messaging) next year. Adam, (left), the plutocratic "British Obama" of the Tory
backbenches, once revealed how his family journeys from Westminster to the
Windsor residence each Friday, "when our whole entourage of nannies and helpers
transfer". However upset the PM may be at having the sincerity of his 2017
referendum promise derided by this leadership plotter, he would be most unwise
to disregard Adam's mass appeal as an insurgent man of the people in the Obama
'08 mould.

Alan Clark defined the patrician Tory

Wading fearlessly into the Ralph Miliband quagmire to defend the Daily Mail,
meanwhile, is Ross Clark. Writing in The Times, Ross contends that "it speaks
volumes that the Conservatives who have joined the attack on the Mail ... are
the most patrician of them". In citing Michael Heseltine, he forgets his
namesake Alan Clark's dismissal of Hezza as one who bought his own furniture.
Ross also neglects to mention that another leading Mail critic motivated by
"snobby distaste for the lower middle classes" is the Thatcher minister John
Moore, the son of a Kentish Town factory worker, later a pub landlord. Tories
come no more patrician than that.

Take a safe drive down memory lane

Also unfairly traduced on crude class grounds is John Bercow (left), dismissed
as "an arrogant toff" by the woman whose car he allegedly hit outside a
restaurant. The Speaker, who must have inherited the driving gene from the
maternal side, is the son of a Jewish cabbie from Edgware. I haven't seen John,
silent on the Miliband/ anti-Semitism issue as befits his office, since we were
fellow students in the same Bar Mitzvah class at Finchley Reform synagogue long
ago. But if he can spare an hour or two to attend Alex Brummer's Chanukah party,
it would be a real joy to catch up on 27 November.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             October 7, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Clegg: Tories' EU plans 'flawed and bound to unravel'

BYLINE: KUNAL DUTTA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 496 words


The Tories' promise to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the European
Union is "deeply flawed and bound to unravel", Nick Clegg will say this week, as
senior Conservative ministers move to try to quell an attempt to bring forward
the vote to before the 2015 election.

An exit from Brussels would be "economic suicide" for the UK and derail the
fragile economic recovery, Mr Clegg will say in a speech tomorrow. "You cannot
overstate the damage it would do to British livelihoods and prosperity," he will
tell employees from Swiss firm Bühler Group.

He will accuse Mr Cameron of promising a referendum to "plaster over" internal
Tory divisions on Europe, despite the fact that it could harm Britain's national
interest. Yesterday Adam Afriyie, the Tory MP for Windsor who has previously
been the source of speculation over a leadership bid, said he planned to table
an amendment to the legislation that paves the way for a referendum in 2017.
Writing in The Mail on Sunday, Mr Afriyie said he wanted a vote on 23 October
2014 and said that any delay posed "significant dangers" - including allowing
Ukip time to build support for moves to leave the EU.

"Only by setting an early date can we kick-start EU renegotiation talks and give
the British people what they so clearly want - a say on our country's future
with Europe," he wrote. "The political establishment is naturally hesitant but
we have nothing to fear."

That view was supported by other figures yesterday, including the former Labour
minister Tom Watson and Ukip leader Nigel Farage.

Sources inside No 10, however, insisted last night that an amendment would not
be allowed to pass "in any circumstances". "The PM will not let it stand," a
spokesman said.

That view was echoed by the Home Secretary Theresa May, who said Mr Afriyie had
"got it wrong" and that his proposal could jeopardise the leadership's plans for
a referendum, which is based on the Tory MP James Wharton's Government-backed
Private Members' Bill.

"What the amendment possibly could do, as James Wharton has said, is it could
jeopardise that Bill," Mrs May told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show.

Mr Wharton's European Union (Referendum) Bill cleared its first Commons hurdle
with ease in July after Labour and the Liberal Democrats abstained from the
vote.

Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg have dismissed the Bill as a stunt designed to shore
up the Prime Minister's position with his rank and file - pointing out that it
has virtually no chance of becoming law. Yesterday Mr Wharton met Mr Afriyie's
proposal with derision. "I hope MPs will decline to support it as the ultimate
impact might well be to kill my Bill, which would only help those who don't want
any referendum," he said. In May 115 Conservative MPs backed a rebel amendment
to the Queen's Speech criticising the failure to include a referendum Bill in
the Government's legislative programme. Mr Cameron said that was impossible due
to being in coalition with the pro-European Liberal Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 30, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

'Lend us your votes': Farage steals in to lure Tory support

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 481 words


Nigel Farage will today urge the Tory faithful to "lend us your votes" in next
year's European elections as he makes a scene-stealing series of appearances at
the Conservative conference.

The UK Independence Party leader, who will speak at three events on the
conference fringe, will repeat his forecast that his buoyant party is set to win
the popular vote in next year's elections to the European Parliament.

Mr Farage told The Independent he was not travelling to Manchester to win over
permanent converts to his party but to appeal to Conservatives to switch
allegiance temporarily.

"I'm speaking to the hardcore Tory faithful - they are still members of that
pretty depleted party. Basically it's a 'Lend us your votes' message.

"Conservatives who believe in an independent Britain should forget their normal
loyalty to party and use the opportunity of the European elections to vote
Ukip."

Mr Farage argued that the surge in support for his party had forced Mr Cameron
to drop his previous opposition to a referendum on Britain's membership of the
European Union and that a strong showing for Ukip next year would send
"reverberations" through Brussels.

Ukip officials claim that Mr Cameron has given up on the European contests in
eight months' time and will concentrate the Tories' electoral firepower on the
2015 general election.

Mr Farage's day-long visit to the Manchester conference has caused dismay among
organisers who have sought to minimise publicity for his tour of the fringe.

They removed a listing from the conference handbook advertising an appearance by
Mr Farage at a debate staged by the Bruges Group, whose honorary president was
Baroness Thatcher.

The former Tory chairman Lord Tebbit, who succeeded Lady Thatcher as the group's
president, accused the party of "a lot of over-reaction". He said: "It is not
unusual to have people who are not members of the party at a conference.
Farage's views on Europe are similar to those of most people in the Bruges
Group."

Asked what Lady Thatcher would have made of the move to censor publicity about
the meeting, he replied: "Farage would not have existed if Margaret Thatcher
were still leader."

Mr Farage will also speak at meetings organised by the right-wing Freedom
Association and by Forest, the smokers' rights group.

Although the Tory leadership continues to rebuff the idea of an electoral pact
with Ukip, a BBC survey found one Tory councillor in five supports the move to
avoid splitting the right-of-centre vote. The move has been supported by
prominent Conservative MPs including Michael Fabricant, Jacob Rees-Mogg and
Peter Bone.

But William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said yesterday: "We don't make
electoral pacts with other parties. We do make pacts with the voters of other
parties and win over the voters of other parties."

David Cameron admitted: "We have lost support to Ukip and we need to win that
back."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Historic victory for Merkel - but coalition partners take a beating;
German Chancellor set to overtake Margaret Thatcher as Europe's longest serving
head of government

BYLINE: TONY PATERSON in Berlin

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 719 words


Chancellor Angela Merkel won a historic third term in office with an
overwhelming victory for her ruling conservative Christian Democrats in
Germany's general election last night after securing huge gains which appeared
to have put her party within grasp of an absolute parliamentary majority.

But the election brought a humiliating defeat for Ms Merkel's pro-business,
liberal Free Democrat coalition partners for the past four years. Exit polls
suggested they were ousted from the German parliament for the first time since
1949 after one of their worst election performances on record.

With vote counting still continuing, it was not clear last night whether Ms
Merkel would be obliged to seek a coalition government with the opposition
Social Democrats or even the environmentalist Greens, or whether she would
manage to secure an absolute majority enabling her to govern alone.

It was also unclear whether the recently formed anti-euro party, Alternative for
Germany, had won sufficient votes to enter parliament. Exit poll results showed
the party had obtained 4.9 percent of the vote - a hair's breadth away from the
necessary 5 per cent needed to win seats.

A triumphant Ms Merkel, who is now set to eclipse Margaret Thatcher as Europe's
longest serving head of government, appeared before hundreds of jubilant party
supporters at Christian Democrat party headquarters in Berlin last night.

Wearing a conservative blue jacket and smiling broadly she told them, "This is a
super result - thank you to all voters who gave us this overwhelming victory. We
will do everything we can to make the next four years a success for Germany."

The result was seen as a boost for David Cameron and his plans to win back
powers from Brussels before holding a referendum on Britain's membership of the
European Union. Ms Merkel is an ally who favours limiting the powers of the
European Commission and increasing those of national EU governments.

Wolfgang Schäuble, Ms Merkel's veteran conservative Finance Minister, said last
night that the result ensured that Germany would "keep Europe together. We won't
do this by throwing our weight around; we will do it reliably and responsibly,"
he insisted.

The German Chancellor's Christian Democrats (CDU) romped home with over 42 per
cent of the vote - an increase of 8 per cent over Germany's last general
election in 2009.

Armin Laschet, a senior CDU MP, described the result as a "ringing endorsement"
for Ms Merkel, who remains one of Germany's most-liked post-war chancellors on
record.

Ms Merkel's huge popularity dominated the poll which many commentators described
as one of the most boring German general elections on record. The Chancellor's
campaign focused largely on herself. She deliberately avoided discussion about
the eurozone crisis and the burden it could exact on German taxpayers. Her
critics accused her of lying to voters and " running scared" of the electorate.

The main opposition Social Democrats led by their gaffe-prone candidate, the
former economics minister Peer Steinbrück, won just over 26 per cent of the
vote. They left open whether they would join a grand coalition with Ms Merkel's
conservatives.

The Greens, who had run an unpopular campaign demanding tax increases, suffered
a major setback by winning only 8 per cent of the vote.

For the liberal Free Democrats (FDP), the outcome of the election was a
disaster. Liberal supporters gathered at the party's Berlin headquarters were
speechless as the first exit poll results flashed up on video screens just after
6pm local time.

"It is our worst performance since 1949," admitted the FDP spokesman Christian
Lindner,

"From tomorrow on, we will have to redefine the German liberal party," he told
Germany's ARD television channel.

The FDP was ousted from parliament in key state elections in Bavaria last
weekend. The party campaigned desperately last week to persuade conservative
Christian Democrat supporters to "lend" their votes to the liberals in the
general election to enable the party to remain in coalition government with Ms
Merkel's conservatives.

However the tactic backfired. Ms Merkel countered with a last minute appeal for
conservative votes and appeared to have been successful: voting trend surveys
last night showed that thousands of traditional liberal supporters had voted
conservative.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Ukip does it again: MEP suspended after he calls women 'sluts';
Godfrey Bloom compounds the offence by hitting a reporter

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 646 words


The Ukip leader Nigel Farage last night accused the MEP Godfrey Bloom of
"destroying" the party's conference after he jokingly described women as "sluts"
and hit the Channel 4 reporter Michael Crick round the head with a copy of the
Ukip conference agenda.

Mr Bloom's bizarre behaviour came after Mr Farage had admitted in a speech that
controversial comments by senior figures presented "occasional difficulties" for
the party.

Mr Farage said: "My opinion is Godfrey has gone beyond the pale. He's a friend
of mine and I'm sorry to say it but he has gone beyond the pale and I think we
have no option but to remove the whip from him."

Shortly afterwards the party's chairman, Paul Crowther, confirmed he had indeed
been suspended from the party. Ukip MEP Roger Helmer said Mr Bloom was a
"colourful and outspoken character". But he told Channel 4 News: "It's quite
clear that today he went way over the top, his remarks are very unhelpful, very
damaging."

The episode was an unwelcome distraction for Ukip, which had intended to use the
conference to boost its appeal in what has been a hugely successful year. The
party has witnessed a dramatic surge of support in parliamentary by-elections
and contests for council seats, and has now set its sights on winning the
largest number of votes in the European Parliament elections in May.

Mr Bloom found himself in hot water with party bosses yesterday after heckling
from the sidelines during a fringe event discussing the issue of gender quotas.
Referring to Mr Bloom's notorious comment eight years ago that women did not
clean often enough behind the fridge, two female speakers light-heartedly
discussed their cleaning habits.

Mr Bloom provoked laughter as he responded loudly: "This place is full of
sluts." Confronted by reporters moments later about the aside, he said: "I made
a joke and said: 'Oh well you're all sluts,' and everybody laughed, including
all the women."

His problems multiplied after he was tackled by Michael Crick, Channel 4's
political correspondent, about the absence of black faces on the front of the
party's conference agenda. Mr Bloom accused Mr Crick of being racist then as he
was chased down the road by Mr Crick, he snatched a copy of the booklet out of
the broadcaster's hand and hit him round the head with it.

The fracas follows a recent attack by Mr Bloom on British aid for "Bongo Bongo
land" and a call for small firms to get the power to sack employees who become
pregnant. In his address to activists, Mr Farage acknowledged that being "the
most independent-minded body of men and women" ever seen in British politics
"presents occasional difficulties". He said: "We have some people with
overactive Facebook accounts. And we have some who make public pronouncements
that I would not always choose myself."

He pointed the finger at Mr Bloom and Stuart Wheeler, the party's treasurer, who
has suggested women should not be promoted to company boards because they were
not as good as men at chess, bridge or poker.

"I had the most blistering row with Godfrey Bloom in a Strasbourg restaurant the
other day. He wants to fight for his beliefs and I was saying that we need to
stick to the big messages. I don't always agree on policy with Stuart Wheeler
either. But the essence of our recent success is our ability to push the
boundaries of debate and with that, the national debate on many issues."

Mr Farage told the conference that Ukip was on course to "cause an earthquake"
by winning next year's European elections in what he hopes will become a
referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union.

He claimed that council elections on the same day could prove to be even more
important by building up concentrations of support that could translate into
parliamentary seats in 2015. His argument was underlined by Ukip's capture of a
council seat in Kent from the Conservatives on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 20, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Lord Hayhoe;
Tory minister who became a critic of Mrs Thatcher

BYLINE: John Barnes

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 1148 words


Although Barney Hayhoe was a passionate Europhile and a compassionate
Conservative, it would be wrong to see him as an unreconstructed Heathite. He
was more a disciple of Iain Macleod. Appointed deputy spokesman on Employment in
June 1974, he remained on the front bench after Margaret Thatcher became leader,
and served as a successful middle ranking minister in her governments from
1979-86. Although he never expected to reach the Cabinet there was nevertheless
a sense that his career had stalled, and he was clearly never "one of us".

As Minister for Health he resisted pressure from the British Medical
Association, Royal College of Nursing and Institute of Health Services
management for a two per cent increase in funding each year, arguing that while
growth in the service was inevitable, there was still "fat to cut" and more
productivity to be found. But he was privately resentful of the pressures
brought to bear by the Treasury, and, once retired to the back benches with the
consolation prize of a knighthood, he waited only a few months before suggesting
to the Chancellor, Nigel Lawson, that he should forgo a tax cut and give the
money to the NHS.

"This would be a popular measure in all parties", he said, and he attacked the
underfunding of pay awards to nurses and other health staff, adding, "The
insufficiency of the pay award funding has come very largely out of the cost
improvement programme. I do not think that is the right way to motivate the
staff." He also opposed charging for eye and dental tests.

While still Minister of State in the Treasury he had shared Lawson's scepticism
about the poll tax and he backed unsuccessful efforts to band it and voted
against its introduction on both the second and third readings of the Bill. By
April 1980 he was tagged as the "fifth wettest" MP by the Adam Smith Institute
and later that year it was rumoured that he might run against Thatcher for the
leadership. It was no surprise to find him a strong supporter of Michael
Heseltine's bid for the leadership in the following year.

Hayhoe had taken up a number of business appointments and although he continued
to be a powerful member of the Public Accounts Committee and the Defence Select
Committee, it was no real surprise when he decided not to contest the 1992
General Election. John Major made him a life peer and he was asked to chair the
Guys and St Thomas's NHS Trust (1993-95).

He was the son of a schoolteacher, Frank Hayhoe; his mother was a Catholic from
Northern Ireland, and his first ministerial appointment would have been there
had his wife not persuaded him otherwise. Educated at Stanley Technical School
in South Norwood and at the Borough Polytechnic, from 1941-44 he was a tool room
apprentice, then joined the armaments design division of the Ministry of Supply,
qualifying as a chartered engineer and Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical
Engineers. He served in the Inspectorate of Armaments until 1965, leaving to
join the Conservative Research Department and to pursue political ambitions.

He had been part of the British delegation to the World Federation of Youth in
1944 and after the war joined the Young Conservatives, becoming national vice
chairman in 1951. He chaired the British Youth Council in 1956 and the British
Committee of European Youth in 1957. In 1958 he served as Treasurer of the World
Assembly of Youth. Staunchly ant-Communist and a strong supporter of Nato, he
helped found the pro-US Ariel Foundation. Having stood unsuccessfully at
Lewisham South in the 1964 election he was at the Conservative Research
Department until 1970, taking control of the section dealing with the GLC until
the Conservatives took control in 1967, and he spent a year co-ordinating the
groups working on policy then worked on the manifesto.

Throughout he was in search of a seat, but although frequently a runner-up, it
looked as if he might miss out in 1970. The prosecution of Reader Harris for
fraud offered the chance to fight Heston and Isleworth; although Harris was
acquitted and contested his nomination, the constituency backed Hayhoe and he
won by 4,599 votes.

He was elected secretary of the Conservative backbench committee on employment
and the Conservative Group for Europe. He made his maiden speech on industrial
relations and was a staunch supporter of the Heath government's attempt at union
reform, although notably cautious about the arbitrary imprisonment of trade
unionists. He also backed a Thames estuary airport. He held his marginal seat at
both 1974 elections.

His constituency party had chosen him for his pro-EEC views, and as vice
chairman of the Conservative Group for Europe (1973-76) he campaigned for
continued membership during the referendum campaign in 1975. As deputy spokesman
on employment (1974-79) he was a vigorous opponent of the "danegeld" paid to the
unions in Labour's Trade Union and Labour Relations Bill and Employment
Protection Bill. He later claimed with some justification that his party spoke
for the unemployed, many of whom voted Conservative in 1979.

His reward was an unexciting post as Under Secretary for Defence (Army) where he
took a keen interest in weapons quality, and promotion to Minister of State at
the Civil Service Department in 1981. Though insistent that pay should not
breach the government limit, he settled the civil service strike with a 7.5 per
cent increase while maintaining the cash limit, vindication of the doveish
approach he favoured in contradiction of the Prime Minister.

He was moved to the Treasury, retaining his responsibility for the Civil
Service. His final appointment, as Minister of State for Health, came in 1985
and with it membership of the Privy Council. He was able to increase the number
of hospital consultants and help spearhead the campaign against Aids. After his
elevation to the Lords, where he served on the Select Committee on Public
Service, Hayhoe remained staunchly pro-EU as his party became more eurosceptic.

A sensitive and humane man, genial and outgoing, he had the reputation of being
an organiser rather than a great thinker. That did him less than justice. His
work on tax credits for children, published in 1968, exemplifies his ability to
generate policy. Although principled, he was no ideologue and his pragmatic,
sometimes hard-nosed approach, made him an excellent minister. Withal he was a
very nice man with scarcely an enemy to his name.

Bernard John Hayhoe, politician: born Surrey 8 August 1925; MP, Heston and
Isleworth 1970-74, Brentford and Isleworth, 1974-92; PPS to Lord President and
Leader of House of Commons 1972-74; Under Secretary of State for Defence for the
Army 1979-81; Minister of State: Civil Service Department 1981, Treasury
1981-85, (Minister for Health) DHSS 1985-86; Kt 1987; cr 1992 Life Peer, of
Isleworth; married 1962 Anne Gascoigne Thornton (two sons, one daughter); died 7
September 2013.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Eurosceptics 'want to drag Continent back to the trenches';
EU president Barroso singles out Ukip during outspoken address and issues
warning to Tories

BYLINE: CHARLOTTE MCDONALD-GIBSON in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 510 words


The president of the European Commission accused Eurosceptics yesterday of
wanting to take the continent back to "the trenches" of the First World War -
and warned British Conservatives they risk losing elections if they copy Ukip's
rhetoric.

In his annual state of the union address, Jose Manuel Barroso praised the
European Union for fighting back from the brink of economic catastrophe, and
said recovery was "within sight".

Making reference to the 2014 centenary of the start of the First World War, Mr
Barroso said integration was the key to peace, and warned that any splintering
of the EU risked turning the clock back. "Let me say this to all those who
rejoice in Europe's difficulties and who want to roll back our integration and
go back to isolation: the pre-integrated Europe of the divisions, the war, the
trenches, is not what people desire and deserve," he told MEPs in Strasbourg.

Addressing the debate in Britain about repatriating powers from the EU, he urged
nations that do not like the way Europe works to "improve it, find ways to make
it stronger, internally and internationally... but don't turn away from it".
David Cameron has promised a referendum on Britain's EU membership in 2017 if
the Tories remain in power.

Mr Barroso, pictured, went even further in the debate in the European Parliament
that followed his speech, specifically criticising the Tory party. Addressing
Martin Callanan, the Conservative MEP for North-east England who had just called
for "a new direction" for Europe, he warned that trying to win voters by aping
the Eurosceptic rhetoric of populist parties could backfire at the polls.

"Increasingly your party and your group is looking like Ukip and the
Eurosceptic, anti-European group, and I start to have some doubts that you are
going to be elected yourself in Britain, [and] if it is not Ukip that is going
to be the first force in British elections," he said. "Because when it comes to
being against Europe, between the original and the copy, people prefer the
original."

Mr Callanan retorted that "It's a bit rich for an unelected head of the European
Commission to give electoral advice".

The Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, used his speech to reject Mr Barroso's First
World War comparisons: "Those of us who believe in national democracy do not
want to take us back to the Western Front or 1914."

A spokesman for Mr Cameron also criticised the EU president's argument, saying:
"Rather than try to second guess where the British electorate might come out, I
think the right thing to do is to focus on the importance of this need for
fundamental change - a flexible, adaptable, open European Union."

Mr Barroso's speech was his last state of the union address before his term
expires next year and elections for new MEPs take place in May. There are
concerns among many diplomats in Brussels that the eurozone crisis and prolonged
economic downturn has increased hostility towards the EU, and that this
sentiment could translate into a record showing for euroscpetic parties in the
European Parliament elections in 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Most UK firms back membership of EU

BYLINE: BEN CHU Economics Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 357 words


Almost 80 per cent of firms believe Britain should stay in the European Union,
according to a new survey commissioned by the CBI released today.

A total of eight out of 10 businesses said they would favour remaining in the
trading bloc if a referendum were held tomorrow, a survey by the lobby group
found. Only 10 per cent thought it was in the UK's interests to leave.

Around 75 per cent of respondents said leaving the EU would have a negative
impact on the level of foreign direct investment in the UK, with 35 per cent
warning that an exit would reduce their own investment spending. In addition, 86
per cent of firms said an exit would impede their access to EU markets.

The survey - conducted by YouGov - covered more than 400 businesses which
together employ 1.5 million people. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
were just as likely to favour Britain's continued EU membership.

"This sends a clear message that most CBI members, big and small support UK
membership of the EU," said John Cridland, director general of the CBI. "Firms
want what is best for jobs and growth, and there is genuine concern that an exit
would hit business investment and access to the world's largest trading bloc."

However, the survey also found that 42 per cent of respondents thought EU
employment law, particularly on working hours, had a negative impact on their
business.

The surveyed firms mostly agreed that the UK does have influence within the
European Union over the laws and regulations that affect them, with 72 per cent
feeling Britain had a voice in Brussels. Also, 65 per cent felt this influence
would decline if Britain left the trading bloc.

In a speech in January, David Cameron pledged to hold a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU in the next Parliament if the Conservatives win the 2015
general election.

The Prime Minister vowed to take back powers to Britain from Brussels over the
coming Parliament, but many are sceptical of whether he will win the agreement
of Britain's fellow EU member states for this.

The survey of CBI members was carried out between 13 June and 20 July, and 415
firms were questioned, including 158 SMEs.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Does filibustering do anything for Parliament's reputation? Discuss at length;
McSmith OUR MAN IN WESTMINSTER

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 351 words


Filibustering is heroic, if you happen to agree with the person doing it. It
takes obstinacy, verbal skill, and stamina. The Texas Senator Wendy Davis won so
much kudos for talking non-stop for 11 hours last June to prevent an
anti-abortion bill going through the state legislature that she has attracted
$1.2m (£770,000) worth of political donations in the past month alone.

On this side of the Atlantic, the Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg was fuming
after Labour peers spent 33 hours in January 2011 arguing over just eight out of
80 proposed amendments to the Electoral Reform Bill that was going to cut the
size of the House of Commons. The same ruse has been put to good use from time
to time in the House of Commons. In 2007, a former Tory chief whip, David
Maclean, introduced a Private Member's Bill that was intended to prevent the
Freedom of Information Act from applying to Parliament.

Two Liberal Democrat MPs, Simon Hughes, right, and Norman Baker, spent five
hours arguing about the detail in a bid to stop it going any further.

In 1989, Labour's Dennis Skinner spoke for hours on whether to move the writ for
a by-election, to prevent Ann Widdecombe introducing a bill that would have
restricted abortion.

Such tactics may be admirable in their own way, but do they do anything for the
reputation of Parliament? The cross-party Procedure Committee thinks not,
because rarely can they be successfully used to stop the Government getting
legislation on to the statute books.

They are much more commonly used against bills that backbench MPs are trying to
introduce. The committee, chaired by the Tory MP Charles Walker, is demanding a
change in the rules so that the Commons business managers can impose a timetable
on debates about Private Member's Bills.

Even if the committee gets its way, that will not help James Wharton, the
youngish Tory MP who has a Private Member's Bill that would force the Government
to hold a referendum on whether the UK should stay in or leave the EU, because
any rule change would have to be delayed until next year.

a.mcsmith@independent.co.uk

Twitter: @andymcsmith

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 23, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Millions of expat votes could swing elections;
'Missing' Britons abroad will be encouraged to register EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 536 words


Three million "missing" Britons who live overseas will be encouraged to put
their names back on the UK electoral roll in a recruitment drive that could
prove hugely significant at the next general election.

Fewer than 20,000 expats are still registered to vote in Britain, even though
they are entitled to do so if they have lived in this country in the past 15
years.

A campaign will be launched this year to track the expats down and encourage
them to add their names to the electoral register in time for the European
elections next May and the 2015 general election. People living overseas could
also qualify to vote in any potential referendum on whether to pull out of the
European Union.

The overseas recruitment drive could prove hugely significant in a closely
fought election. Forty-two MPs were elected with majorities of under 1,000 in
2010; if a few dozen voters could be persuaded to cast their ballots from
Benidorm or Bondi, that could make all the difference in Bolton.

The Electoral Commission is drawing up plans for an online campaign targeted at
people using email accounts abroad which were initially set up in Britain.
Reminders to register will also be sent to people overseas who use online search
terms showing an interest in British politics, and advertisements will be placed
on the BBC and news websites known to be regularly accessed by UK nationals.
Advertisements will also be placed on radio stations and in expat newspapers.

Estimates of numbers of Britons abroad vary between 4.5m and 5.5m. If those who
have lived overseas for more than 15 years or are aged under 18 are excluded,
more than three million could still be entitled to vote.

The Commission's top target countries will be Spain and Australia, each of which
is home to around one million expats, followed by France, where some 500,000
British nationals live. It will also cover the US, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand,
South Africa, Germany and the United Arab Emirates.

Conservative MP Geoffrey Clifton-Brown, active in the Conservatives Abroad
organisation, said last night: "It is pretty poor that these people are
disenfranchised. If three million people were disenfranchised for a particular
reason in this country, there would be an awful row about it."

The Commission has opened talks with embassies and consulates in the 10
countries, with the aim of helping them to get a "use your vote" message to
expatriate communities. It is also giving advice to the major political parties,
which all run overseas operations, to identify potential voters.

Conservatives tend to assume they would have the most to gain from more expats
being added to the electoral register. Some Tories claim the Labour Government
deliberately neglected to encourage the Commission to reach out to overseas
voters.

OVERSEAS VOTING

THE RULES

British nationals abroad can vote if they have lived in Britain in the previous
15 years. They are entitled to vote in elections to Westminster and the European
Parliament, as well as national plebiscites such as the 2011 referendum on
changing the electoral system. They may not vote in local elections or contests
for devolved bodies such as the Greater London Authority, Scottish Parliament or
Welsh Assembly.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 15, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Merkel supports Tory plan to 'give back' EU powers to member states

BYLINE: OLIVER WRIGHT Whitehall Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 665 words


Angela Merkel would be prepared to back David Cameron's demands for a return of
powers from Brussels to Westminster as part of negotiations on the future of the
European Union.

In comments ahead of the German elections next month, Ms Merkel has suggested
that discussions on whether Brussels should "give something back" to member
states could begin in the autumn. Privately, close colleagues of the German
Chancellor have told Tory MPs that she would support proposals to significantly
scale back the EU's role in regional development. This currently consumes 30 per
cent of the total EU budget and has cost Britain £21bn over the last five years.

Ms Merkel is also said to be sympathetic to Mr Cameron's demand for automatic
opt-out right for new EU laws which do not directly affect the running of the
single market.

While Germany does not support re-opening negotiations over the controversial
Working Time Directive, Britain might still be able to secure either a partial
or complete opt-out as the price for supporting further harmonisation of the
eurozone economies.

Ms Merkel's tacit support will bolster hopes in the Government that Mr Cameron
will be able to negotiate a deal he can sell to his own party ahead of any
referendum of Britain's membership of the EU after the next election.

Over the past few months, with the backing of the Foreign Secretary William
Hague, a group of more moderate Tory Eurosceptic MPs have begun a tour of
European capitals to try and explain the Conservative position - and begin
unofficial attempts to build a consensus for reform. The group, called Fresh
Start, has already visited Germany, Poland and the Czech Republic and is
planning trips further trips to other European capitals over the next few
months.

A source in the group said they had received a sympathetic hearing in Berlin
with a key ally in Ms Merkel making clear that the German Chancellor was
personally sympathetic to many of their ideas. "We were given the explicit
message that Ms Merkel had seen what we were proposing and could support it," a
senior member told The Independent.

"We have also received a sympathetic hearing in other countries as well. This is
not about Britain saying no to Europe, it is about practical ways in which we
can reform the union."

Among the ideas being proposed are an emergency brake on future EU legislation
that affects financial services, a legal safeguard to ensure that non-eurozone
companies are not discriminated against in the single market and a scaling back
of the EUs powers over employment and social legislation.

The group is supported and run by more moderate Tory backbenchers including
George Eustice, Dominic Raab and Andrea Leadsom. The backing of such MPs will be
crucial if Mr Cameron is to isolate those in his party who want a more radical
repatriation of EU powers. But he will also need strong German support to build
a consensus for change among the 27 member states - a number of whom, including
France, want Brussels to do more, not less.

Yesterday Ms Merkel suggested she was in favour of those discussions happening
soon. Speaking on German TV, she said: "I believe that in Europe at the moment
we have to take care to co-ordinate our competiveness more closely. [But] we
don't have to do everything in Brussels." She added: "We can also consider
whether we can give something back. And we will also have this discussion after
the Bundestag elections."

'FRESH START'

THE AIMS

* A new legal safeguard for the single market to ensure that EU institutions and
Eurozone members cannot discriminate against non-Eurozone members.

* A limit to awarding of structural development funds to member states with a
GDP per head of less than 90 per cent of the average. This would save Britain
£4.2bn a year.

* The return of powers over social and employment law to member states. Failing
this, it says Britain should either secure a substantial lessening of the
regulatory burden in the social chapter for all members or negotiate an opt-out.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron upsets Eurosceptics with our man for Brussels

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 500 words


For Eurosceptic Conservative MPs, David Cameron could barely have made a more
provocative choice.

The Prime Minister has chosen Ivan Rogers - the former chief adviser to their
pro-EU hate figure, Kenneth Clarke - to be the UK's next ambassador to the EU in
Brussels, with the task of renegotiating Britain's place within the
organisation.

Mr Rogers, currently the Prime Minister's adviser on Europe, is expected to see
his appointment confirmed within weeks. But some Tories will be alarmed by his
apparently Europhile background - he has also served as chief of staff to the
former vice-president of the European Commission, Lord Brittan.

His role will be highly significant as he will lead efforts to claw back powers
to Britain ahead of a 2017 referendum promised by Mr Cameron on EU membership.
Tory Eurosceptics said the job was so critical to the national interest that the
appointment should be subject to veto by MPs, as he is an unelected official.

They are calling for him to be summoned before a parliamentary committee before
his promotion is confirmed, but their demands are being strongly resisted by
Downing Street.

Bill Cash, the chairman of European Scrutiny Committee, said the holder of the
post "holds the key to the whole of the legislative negotiations that take
place" and should appear before MPs.

He told The Independent: "They have to be held accountable and the policies they
are adopting have to be held accountable."

His fellow Eurosceptic, Douglas Carswell, also complained yesterday that MPs
would not get the opportunity to cross-examine Mr Rogers over his views.

He said: "Despite all that 'new-politics-accountable-government' blah blah we
heard so much about before the last election, those we elect will not have the
chance to ask Mr Rogers before he is handed the role. Government accountability
to Parliament, it seems to me, is a fiction."

The Government argues that the post of UK Permanent Representative to the EU
should not be subject to veto as the incumbent pursues policies which are fixed
by ministers who are answerable to MPs. One MP said last night: "So long as he's
an EU reformist then it's good news. We need someone with focus and the will to
achieve change on several fronts - one or two reforms are not enough."

The post has become vacant after Sir Jon Cunliffe announced he was stepping down
to become the deputy governor of the Bank of England.

Whitehall sources said Mr Rogers had impressed the Prime Minister with his work
preparing the ground for the G8 summit at Lough Erne, Northern Ireland, in June.

He is also said to have helped improve relations between Britain and Germany,
which could prove crucial in negotiations over the EU's future.

He was appointed Mr Cameron's adviser on Europe and global issues in 2011, a
position formerly held by Sir Jon. His mixture of Government and City experience
will be important as British ministers attempt to wrest powers back to Britain
and to resist pressure for tighter regulation of financial institutions.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 6, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

The Coalition's battle for power rages on;
INSIDE WHITEHALL

BYLINE: OLIVER WRIGHT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 701 words


There are some rows between the Tories and the Liberal Democrats in government
that everybody knows about - but are slightly confected and don't really matter.

The Conservative backbench Bill for an in/out EU referendum is one (it keeps
David Cameron's Eurosceptic backbenchers happy but is very unlikely to pass).
The mansion tax is another (It won't happen but helps Nick Clegg differentiate
his party from the Tories).

But there are other, more important, disputes that rarely make big headlines but
have implications that will affect us all. And one of them is going on right now
over how best to keep Britain's lights on.

The nub of the problem is straightforward. Britain has to replace the vast
majority of its ageing coal, gas and nuclear power stations that provide us with
electricity within the next five years. We've known this for a long while - but
decision time is imminent.

A few years ago the solution appeared to be that we would invest large amounts
of money in new renewable technologies (alongside new nuclear power) with a few
gas stations that could be turned on during times of increased demand or lack of
supply.

The strategy was broadly supported by all three main political parties as a
means significantly to cut our carbon emissions while reducing our reliance on
Russian and Middle Eastern gas. But today that consensus has fallen apart for
three linked reasons.

The first is the recession. Renewable energy might be cheaper in the long term
but it is a new technology and hugely expensive to get off the ground. What
seemed feasible in 2007 seems horribly expensive today.

The second reason is the shifting debate around climate change. Although
scientists have not altered their predictions about global warming, the
political consensus has fragmented.

A number of Tories now feel that being a climate change sceptic is not just
acceptable - but politically advantageous. The Environment Secretary, Owen
Paterson, privately questions the scientific case for man-made climate change.
Even Oliver Letwin - who advises Mr Cameron across a range of policy areas - is
now said to be sceptical about the idea of investing heavily in renewable energy
like offshore wind.

What has given succour to the sceptics is the third reason for the energy
consensus falling apart: shale gas. We still don't know how practical it will be
to extract the gas which the British Geological Survey says is present in very
large quantities across the North of England.

But Mr Letwin - and perhaps more importantly the Chancellor George Osborne -
argue behind closed doors that it is stupid to commit billions of pounds to
renewables when we could have a plentiful source of energy under the ground at a
fraction of the price.

And that takes us back to the current dispute. Mr Clegg and the Climate Change
Secretary Ed Davey are pushing hard for the Government not to abandon concrete
support for developers of expensive renewables like offshore wind.

And superficially they appear to be winning. Last month the Government published
the price it would be prepared to pay for wind-generated electricity. Then last
week it published its Offshore Wind Industrial Strategy which outlined a range
of incentives to turn Britain into an international hub for offshore wind
turbine production.

But this is window dressing and the Tories, led by Mr Osborne and Mr Letwin, may
yet sabotage the plans. They have refused Liberal Democrat attempts to give any
price guarantees for wind energy beyond 2020 and are refusing to cover the risk
of cost over-runs for new wind fields in the contracts.

They have also put off a decision on whether to set a legally binding target for
carbon emissions from electricity generation until after the next election.

Together these seemingly small things - which have had little publicity - will
be enough to put off a lot of renewable investors from coming to Britain and
will effectively strangle the large-scale development of off-shore wind.

Without that investment we may be forced to resort to gas (or even worse) coal
to keep the lights on and lose the opportunity to become a world leader in
renewable technology. If that happens the climate sceptics will have won the
battle by stealth.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 6, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Nations need to abandon old ties to succeed in the new Great Game;
ECONOMICS VIEW

BYLINE: SATYAJIT DAS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 704 words


For nations without a large domestic economy, adequate resources and a need for
export markets, a retreat from global integration poses challenges. For example,
smaller nations cannot influence exchange rates to the same extent as the major
powers. Instead, countries require pragmatic strategies to prosper.

In a world of low growth and increased competition, economic nationalism
reasserts itself and free trade and movement of capital may decline. Alternative
trading blocs to counter the shift to closed economies may evolve. The recent
rush to negotiate bilateral free trade agreements reflects this pressure.

Countries rich in natural resources may ally themselves with major nations, such
as the US, Europe or China, becoming preferred suppliers of food, energy or raw
materials. In turn, they can reciprocate by becoming markets for products or
services and investment.

African countries are pursuing this policy, concluding long-term supply
agreements for agricultural or mineral products sought by China. In return,
China is expanding investment, trade and development aid preferentially with
these nations, co-ordinating transactions by Chinese businesses and banks.

Australia has emerged as an important source of raw materials for China. Russia
has become an energy and commodity supplier to Europe. Within the framework of
Nafta, Canada has become an important energy supplier to the US while Mexico
provides low-cost labour to American businesses.

Strategically located, smaller nations such as Switzerland or Singapore can
become important centres providing trading, logistics, financial or investment
services.

The UK faces challenges in this new environment. British excellence in real
economy activities, like manufacturing, has declined, although there are notable
exceptions. With the decrease in North Sea production, its oil industry cannot
be a prominent growth engine.

In services, Britain continues to be a force, but its once-prominent role in
entertainment, fashion, art and other soft-power industries has also declined.

With its banking sector trying to recover from imperial over-reach, London's
role as a financial services centre is increasingly under challenge, both from
Europe and the US. In the 2000s, London became the world's dominant finance hub.
Non-intrusive, market-responsive "light touch" regulation was a factor in its
success. Damage to London's reputation from matters like the Libor fixing
scandal and stricter regulation would allow New York and European centres to
regain competitive ground.

An equivocal relationship with Europe also remains problematic. After the Second
World War, American Secretary of State Edward Stettinius told US President
Roosevelt that Britain's problem was "emotional difficulty ... in adjusting to a
secondary role after always accepting a leading role as a national right".

Great Britain took many years to recognise the benefits of the EU, with less
than full engagement, having chosen, perhaps fortunately, not to adopt the
single currency.

In reality, Europe remains a major trading partner and market. In practical
terms, Europeans will question London's role as the Continent's main financial
and trading centre, particularly for the euro, as long as it remains equivocal.
The rise of anti-Europe political movements and also the planned referendum
about EU participation are unhelpful.

The UK still has formidable advantages - its language, its law which is the
basis of commercial and financial contracts globally, its elite universities,
its cultural heritage and its history as an entrepot commercial and financial
centre. But it will need to manage these advantages cleverly.

In the new Great Game, nations will have to abandon historical ties and biases,
trading off political status against economic prosperity and security. In the TV
series Downton Abbey, Cora Crawley asks her mother-in-law: "Are we friends,
then?" The Dowager Countess's reply is instructive: "We are allies, my dear,
which can be a good deal more effective." Smaller nations, unable to retreat
into closed economies, will need to adjust strategies to make the most of the
new world order.

Satyajit Das is a former banker and author of 'Extreme Money' and 'Traders Guns
& Money'

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Mugabe's victory was a 'masterclass in electoral fraud';
Opponents claim Zanu-PF conned its way to power - rather than taking it by force

BYLINE: LEO CENDROWICZ in Harare

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 730 words


Zimbabwe's election on Wednesday was picture-perfect. Inspiring images came in
from all over the country of diligent voters queuing patiently as they waited to
cast their ballots in the presidential and parliamentary polls.

Millions doubtless believed they were patriotically playing their part in their
nation's democratic destiny. Now, however, they feel they were merely political
props - a cynical veneer of respectability for an outrageous electoral deceit
aimed at reaffirming Robert Mugabe as Zimbabwe's ageing patriarch.

As results trickle in from constituencies across Zimbabwe, the scale of Mr
Mugabe's controversial victory is becoming clear: the 89-year-old is on course
to claim an outright win in the presidential contest, thus avoiding a run-off
poll. At the same time, his Zanu-PF party has re-asserted its authority in
parliament: the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission yesterday said it had won 142
seats in the 210-seat parliament, securing the two-thirds majority needed to
change the constitution.

The result has been lambasted by the opposition Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC) as "a sham", and "a huge farce", tainted by "monumental rigging". The
MDC's leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, who is the country's Prime Minister, has warned
of a repeat of the descent into chaos that followed the equally disputed 2008
elections.

For outsiders, the result is baffling. Mr Mugabe, who has held Zimbabwe under
his brutal authority since independence in 1980, is a diminished figure, widely
mocked inside Zimbabwe for his senility and his vanity. While he retains chunks
of support in rural areas, and a power base in the police, army and courts,
informal polling indicates a decline in his electoral appeal.

In 1980, Zimbabwe was sub-Saharan Africa's second-richest country, but Mr
Mugabe's stewardship has seen the economy wither, halving in size in the decade
leading to 2009. People have searing memories of the hyperinflation of 2008,
reaching 231 million per cent by some measures, with prices doubling every day -
it ended only with dollarisation under Mr Tsvangirai's government. And Zimbabwe
remains a pariah state, subject to sanctions by the European Union and the US.

So how did Mr Mugabe do it? The answer, according to his observers and
opponents, is shameless electoral swindle at almost every level while
maintaining the mere façade of an orderly poll on the day itself.

The Zimbabwe Election Support Network, an observer group with 7,000 monitors,
has listed a litany of offences, including state-media bias, a campaign of
intimidation in rural areas, and the rushed electoral process before key reforms
in the security services were in place. But the most effective measure was
fiddling the electoral rolls. Held back until the day before the election - thus
avoiding proper scrutiny - the rolls revealed an estimated one million invalid
names, including many deceased voters. And it excluded up to one million real
ones, mostly in urban areas, where the MDC support is strongest.

This is much more subtle than past poll fixes, when Zanu-PF literally muscled
out its opponents. By 2008, when Mr Tsvangirai won the first round of the
presidential election but was forced to withdraw after an outbreak of violence
by Mugabe henchmen, this method was looking too crude.

"When Mugabe used violence in 2008, he lost legitimacy, so he found other ways
to win," said Pedzisai Ruhanya, from the Zimbabwe Democracy Institute, a
Harare-based think-tank."It is chicanery, organised theft and electoral
authoritarianism."

Crucially, being violence-free earned the election a qualified thumbs-up from
electoral observers from neighbouring African nations. Yesterday, the head of
the African Union's 70-member mission, Olusegun Obasanjo, hailed the peaceful
voting while downplaying other incidences, saying they were not enough to affect
the overall result.

But for Europe and the United States, who were barred from sending electoral
monitors, it is trickier. After a new constitution was approved in a referendum
earlier this year, the European Union relaxed some of its sanctions. Officials
have yet to give an opinion on the election, but sanctions could be imposed.

On Wednesday, as Zimbabwe's voters waited in line, they might well have
reflected on how much hung on their decision at the ballot box. They now wonder
if the election was won long before the first vote was cast.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 30, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

The European tide has turned. But can we be honest about it?;
The EU

BYLINE: BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1195 words


Britain and the EU; there are two obvious historical conclusions. First, it is
"and", not "in"; we have never really joined Europe. In the early 1970s, there
was transplant surgery. The new European organ was inserted into the British
body politic, with the help of immunosuppressant drugs. The assumption was that
they would soon be unnecessary. Not so; 40 years on, the rejection mechanisms
are stronger than ever.

One of the ablest and most formidable of the EU-country ambassadors in London
said recently that Britain would not leave the EU because the British were not a
nation of quitters. Yes, and no. In terms of great national purposes, the
compliment is deserved. But the EU has never been a great national purpose. A
departure would lead to political turbulence. If David Cameron were to recommend
a "Yes" vote but lose the referendum, he would have to resign, while a hundred
or so Europhiles who had devoted their lives to the European cause would feel
desolated. But most people would not think that Britain had failed.

The second conclusion is that Europe and Britain are fundamentally divergent:
geography has shaped us for different destinies. Look back to Charlemagne and
Lotharingia: back indeed to Varus and the lost Legions. Forget Rheingold; it is
more a case of Rhein-krieg. The Rhine frontier has been the most contentious in
all history. That great river has been a highway of trade, civilisation, culture
- and conflict. In 1945, many good Europeans decided that this had to cease.
Europe was broken, ravaged, powerless. Its peoples were cold, hungry and
frightened. The nation state had betrayed them. Nationalism, once thought of as
the political wing of the Enlightenment, had turned into the political wing of
the jackboot. If Europe was to be reborn, there had to be a supra-national
entity.

Some future British politicians agreed with this: Ted Heath and Roy Jenkins were
the best-known. Most did not. Over the centuries, the sea, our moat, had
protected us from the wars of nations. The threat to us had come from the
attempts to create a superstate: Philip II, Louis XIV, Napoleon, Hitler. The war
over, let the foreigners worry about jackboots. Most Brits could not wait to get
home and take their boots off, secure in their country which had once again
safeguarded laws, lives and liberties.

The British Europhiles who shared the continental Europeans' anxieties and
ambitions had a difficulty. How could they persuade their fellow-countrymen?
That was compounded by a further problem. The Euro enthusiasts were
intellectuals, and like many intellectuals in politics, they were adept at
ignoring data which did not fit their theories. They also believed themselves to
be wiser than ordinary people. There ensued what Hugo Young described as "the
Blessed Plot": a conspiracy to finagle Britain into Europe by pretending that it
was only a free-trade area and that membership would enhance our prosperity.

In essence, the Platonic Euro-guardians treated the British electorate as if it
were an ill and fractious child which was refusing to take the healing medicine.
Somehow distract the brat's attention, shove the teaspoon into its gob, quickly
follow up with a sweet: "There, there: what was all the fuss about?" That
reached its apogee over the Lisbon Treaty. A referendum had been promised, which
ensured that Europe would not be an issue at the 2005 election. That promise was
broken. Company promoters who issued a prospectus on such a basis would be
liable to imprisonment. (Apropos prison, and the proposals to jail reckless
bankers, how long a sentence should be passed on those who devised the euro?)

The voters are not fractious children. I suspect that the long travails of the
eurozone have had a profound effect on public opinion, hardening scepticism into
hostility. Though people may not understand exactly what has gone wrong with
Europe, they know that it is something big and toxic. Thank goodness we are
clear of it; perhaps we should get clearer still.

We certainly need a clearer public debate. At present, there is too much naive
extremism. Nick Clegg tells us that leaving would cost three million jobs, a
nonsensical claim which merely discredits his side's case. On the Ukip wing, we
are assured that our departure would be financially beneficial: a foolhardy
assertion. If Britain were to leave, international big business would not be
applauding. That is not a conclusive objection; businessmen always prefer
stability and certainty. But it would be unwise to jeopardise inward investment.

There is also the threat to the City. Some Europeans blame our banks for their
troubles. That may be self-pitying rubbish - we did not invent the euro - but
lots of Europeans are envious of the City's successes. Greed and resentment
could form a powerful coalition, threatening the revenues on which this country
is absolutely dependent. We are also under threat from American lawyers,
inciting their courts to demand jurisdiction over British firms - and then
plunder them. This is the most overweening attempt at legislative imperialism
since we British put down the slave trade, and that had stronger moral
foundations.

The Royal Navy is not what it was. In a world beset by complexity and risk,
there is a constant argument for caution. The British table has several legs:
the EU, the Commonwealth, the US, a long tradition of global trade.
Internationally, the arguments for free trade seem to be making progress; the
World Trade Organisation appears to be strengthening. But free trade is a
fragile plant. It flourishes in benign climes; it can rapidly wilt in crises.

The international order is uncertain. In such circumstances, we should not
lightly discard potential allies. The UK is far from alone in believing that the
EU needs to be reformed. It is also possible that an implosion of the eurozone
will impel reform. Reinforced by a political elite - a Euro-nomenklatura - which
sets the terms of the EU debate in almost all its member countries, the single
currency has proved much more durable than Anglo-Saxon common sense would have
believed possible. But it still resembles a tightrope artist without a rope.
There must come a moment when it is no longer possible to defy reality. Equally,
the Europeans know that David Cameron is in earnest about renegotiation - and
almost all of them want us to remain members.

Given the state of the world economy, the threats to the euro, the still graver
threats to order in the Middle East, the anxieties about stability in China, the
weakness of the US under a president who makes Jimmy Carter seem like Theodore
Roosevelt, and the volatility of the British electoral system, it is hard enough
to predict the past, let alone the future. But it is time for the UK to have a
serious and un-self-deceiving debate about our relations with the EU.

In one respect, this is likely to have a negative outcome. Most people will be
unimpressed by any attempts at idealism, whether it be the embrace of our common
European home or the UK in splendid isolation. They are much more likely to vote
for the lesser evil. That has much to commend it, in a fallen world.

Twitter: @IndyVoices

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Why the PM secretly dreads a Tory-only government;
INSIDE WESTMINSTER

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 799 words


Peter Bone, a right-wing Eurosceptic Conservative MP, may only be a household
name in his own household but he is in the thoughts of our senior politicians
this summer. As it happens, his own household is mentioned quite a lot in the
Commons, since he jokingly tells David Cameron at Prime Minister's Questions
what "Mrs Bone" would make of it all.

Mr and Mrs Bone would clearly like the Coalition to end yesterday. The MP for
Wellingborough, right, made his latest call for the Tories to detach themselves
from the pesky Liberal Democrats this week after the Foreign Office issued a
series of reports suggesting the balance of power between London and Brussels
was about right in six key areas.

At a recent press conference, Nick Clegg cited some of the 40 "loopy" backbench
Bills that "my mate Peter Bone" and his allies are introducing - to highlight
the right-wing Tory agenda the Liberal Democrats are blocking inside the
Coalition. They include bringing back the death penalty; banning the burka; a
Margaret Thatcher Day bank holiday; withdrawing from the European Convention on
Human Rights (ECHR); privatising the BBC and limiting sexual misconduct
allegations to breaches of the criminal law.

This list matters not because these Bills have any chance of becoming law now,
but because some of them - such as pulling out of the ECHR - would stand a
chance if the Tories won an overall majority in 2015. So Mr Clegg will argue
that a strong Liberal Democrat presence in the next parliament could rein in a
Conservative Party determined to veer right.

Tory strategists, too, are turning their attention to Mr Bone's gang of about 20
hard-core right-wingers. Although Labour's opinion poll lead has shrunk, it is
going to be very difficult for Mr Cameron to win outright next time. As the
election will be fought on the existing constituency boundaries, which favour
Labour, the Tories need to be six or seven points ahead to be sure of a
majority. Mr Cameron told the BBC's Andrew Marr on Sunday that he is "going to
fight all out for victory," but a more realistic Tory target is to secure about
35 per cent of the vote and be the largest party.

Privately, some senior Tories think a small overall majority might be worse than
another coalition because it would leave Mr Cameron dependent on the Commons
votes of Bone & Co - crucially, at a time when Europe would top the agenda in
the run-up to the in/out referendum Mr Cameron has promised in 2017. "Imagine
picking up the phone to Peter Bone and asking him what he wanted in return for
supporting the Government," one Cabinet minister sighed. The Coalition currently
enjoys a majority of 77, sidelining Bone & Co. It is a luxury Mr Cameron can
only dream of when he thinks about a Tory-only government.

So, although the polls show the Liberal Democrats at about 11 per cent and still
trailing the UK Independence Party, Mr Clegg started his summer break this week
in surprisingly good spirits. His party is in a stronger strategic position than
the polls suggest. Its pitch in 2015 - "a stronger economy and fairer society"
-???sounds like just another slogan, but it has been vindicated by recent
events. The problems in the NHS will rekindle voters' doubts about whether the
Tories can be trusted to build a fairer society, a key reason behind their
failure to win in 2010. The Liberal Democrats' own polling suggests they have
successfully claimed ownership of the Government's flagship rise in tax
thresholds to £10,000 a year, giving Mr Clegg crucial ammunition as he spells
out what his party has achieved in coalition.

At the same time, voters continue to doubt that a Labour government would
deliver a strong economy. Liberal Democrat strategists believe the most
significant development of the political year just ending was Labour's
acceptance that more cuts would be needed after the next election. "Labour has
moved on to our ground," one Liberal Democrat said. "It vindicates our decision
to enter the Coalition in 2010 to sort out the deficit."

So the Liberal Democrats are very much in the game, and can offer to anchor a
Tory or Labour-led government in the centre ground. Another hung parliament
remains a real prospect in 2015. Mr Cameron and Ed Miliband know they can't
ignore Mr Clegg; they might need him.

The Prime Minister has two dilemmas. Many in his party will demand the Coalition
ends before the election, but the Liberal Democrats want it to last up to the
wire to show that "coalition works". Mr Cameron will have to offer his party
some "red meat" in the Tory manifesto on welfare cuts, the EU, the ECHR and
eventual tax cuts. His problem is that advertising a lurch to the right would
reduce the Tories' electoral prospects in 2015 and make it harder for the
Liberal Democrats to sign up to another coalition. Tricky.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Another twist in the debate about Europe;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 607 words


When the Prime Minister set out plans for a thorough-going audit of Britain's
relationship with Europe, the aim was to establish a basis from which to
repatriate powers back to Westminster. Instead, the first batch of results
suggests the so-called "balance of competences" to be about right - which is
good news for Britain but rather less so for David Cameron.

The Prime Minister has long been in a bind over Europe. Unlike the "swivel-eyed"
backbenchers who want out at any price, his approach is more measured. There is
much scope for improvement, he thinks; but, reforms accomplished, we are better
off in. Faced with squalls of rebellion from Eurosceptic MPs spooked by Ukip, Mr
Cameron tried to square the circle by promising not only to renegotiate our
place in the EU but to hold an in/out referendum on the results of his
handiwork.

To help things along, he ordered a vast stocktake (to run to 32 studies, in four
tranches) to identify where Britain is most egregiously under Brussels' heel.
Except that the first six reports - looking at the single market, tax, foreign
policy, healthcare, food safety and aid - failed to deliver. There are questions
about some specific regulations. The Working Time Directive, for example, causes
problems for junior doctors. And while most tax rules are set nationally, an EU
-wide levy on financial transactions will hit the City hard. But these are mere
quibbles; the broad picture is of a system in which Britain's profits exceed its
losses.

Although almost all foreign policy is decided in Westminster, we gain much from
Brussels' extra heft in trade talks. Similarly, while the single market comes
with extra rules - sceptics' loathed "red tape" - the boost to British business,
both in Europe and globally, is of far greater consequence. Even the NHS gains
more from foreign medics than it loses to health tourism.

No wonder Mr Cameron delayed publication until his MPs had safely left
Westminster for the summer; and no wonder he refused the high-profile launch
favoured by the Liberal Democrats. Still, Eurosceptics were quick to cry foul.
Never mind the 500 submissions from which officials drew their conclusions; they
are still a "Whitehall whitewash" from a pro-Europe "bureaucratic elite". The
star turn at the circus was, of course, Ukip's Nigel Farage, who dismissed the
whole business as "a futile and cynical PR exercise" proving the Prime
Minister's duplicity.

In fact, the reverse is true. At the outset, the notion of a review did, indeed,
appear to be a propaganda stunt - one designed to cloak the Prime Minister's
pre-conceived agenda. It did not help that, of our 27 EU counterparts, only
Italy and Bulgaria responded to requests for evidence - a comment not only on
the distractions of the euro crisis but also on the conclusions drawn in
European capitals from Mr Cameron's altogether gauche diplomacy.

Now, however, any notion of a stitch-up must surely be abandoned. After all, few
people are more incommoded by this week's conclusions than Mr Cameron himself.
Even his more moderate assertions about the need to re-set Britain's
relationship with Brussels have been cut off at the roots, and his attempts to
tread the line between the country's best interests and his party's neuroses are
now trickier than ever.

All of which only increases the value of the three further batches of competence
reports due by 2014. This week's fulminations about a Europhile plot only
confirm - yet again - the extent to which the EU debate is one of politics and
politics alone. What are needed, more than anything else, are some hard facts -
whether or not Mr Farage et al want to hear them.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 19, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Grassroots Tories call on PM to reject Coalition 2.0

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 450 words


David Cameron will face strong opposition from Conservative Party members if he
tries to form a second coalition with the Liberal Democrats after the 2015
election. A survey of 850 Tory members found that only one in three (33 per
cent) believes Mr Cameron was right to form the Coalition with Nick Clegg in
2010.

With hindsight, the Conservative grass roots would have preferred a minority
Tory government (41 per cent) or an immediate second general election (24 per
cent). The disenchantment with the Coalition is echoed by many Tory MPs, who
complain that Mr Cameron treats his partnership with Mr Clegg as an equal one,
even though the Tories won 306 seats to the Lib Dems' 57.

Yet some Tory ministers admit it will be hard for the party to win an overall
majority in 2015 and are privately raising the prospect of a continuing
Coalition. Although they would never say it in public, some ministers would even
prefer a second Con-Lib government to a small overall Tory majority, which could
leave Mr Cameron at the mercy of a handful of right-wing MPs.

"It would be like John Major's government all over again," said one. "The
hardline Eurosceptics would cause mayhem in the run-up to the EU referendum [in
2017]."

Some Tory MPs complain that Mr Cameron bounced them into a coalition in 2010 and
will demand to be fully consulted in the event of another hung parliament. Some
right-wing critics claim he could face an immediate leadership challenge if he
fails to win an overall majority for a second time, although other MPs doubt
that his enemies would try to dislodge a prime minister at a time when the
country needed stability.

The YouGov poll for Queen Mary, University of London, shows that Tory members
are much more hostile to the Coalition than Tory voters, who favour the
Cameron-Clegg partnership by a margin of 56 to 40 per cent.

Professor Tim Bale, of Queen Mary's School of Politics and International
Relations, said the ideology of some Tory members was driving their negative
attitude to coalition. They are "significantly more conservative" than Mr
Cameron on social issues such as gay marriage rather than on the economy or
public services, on which there is widespread grass-roots support for spending
cuts to reduce the deficit.

Euroscepticism is more popular among those members who opposed going into
coalition in 2010. Among those who are pro-Coalition, only 54 per cent would
vote to leave the EU if there were a referendum tomorrow. But among members who
would have preferred a minority government or second election, the figure rises
to 79 and 80 per cent respectively.

Tory members who are sceptical about the Coalition are significantly more likely
to be tempted to vote for Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

DIRECTOR VS DICTATOR;
One has an Oscar, the other rules oil-rich Azerbaijan with an iron fist. Can
Rustam Ibragimbekov overcome Ilham Aliyev in the battle for the presidency?
Shaun Walker reports

BYLINE: Shaun Walker

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1191 words


During the many decades that the 74-year-old Oscar-winning director and
screenwriter Rustam Ibragimbekov spent on film sets, he had little use for
bodyguards. But it is not surprising that his friends are worried now.
Ibragimbekov - a man who has never had much to do with politics - has just been
chosen as the unified opposition candidate to face off against Ilham Aliyev, the
heavy-handed leader of his home country, Azerbaijan.

Mr Aliyev - who took over when his father, Heydar Aliyev, died in 2003 - changed
the constitution to allow him to stand for a third term in general elections
that are expected in the autumn. He has used windfall cash from the country's
oil industry to modernise the capital city, Baku, and turn it into a glittering,
neon Dubai on the Caspian Sea. At the same time, his family and cronies have
been implicated in a multitude of huge corruption scandals.

With one eye on the country's vast oil reserves, Western governments have turned
a blind eye to the rampant corruption within the Azeri elite, while heavy-handed
tactics and control of the media at home have kept discontent to a narrow
segment of young internet-savvy city dwellers, until recently. Vocal critics of
the regime have been locked up, often on spurious "hooliganism" charges.

Ibragimbekov is neither a charismatic speaker nor a long-standing critic of the
regime; in fact he was once close to both Mr Aliyev and his father. There is
footage online of Mr Aliyev toasting the filmmaker's brilliance at a vodka-laden
feast and taking pride in the fame he brought to Azerbaijan. The director has
long been one of the country's most prominent cultural figures, making the
Soviet classic The White Sun of the Desert and co-scripting the Oscar-winning
Burnt by the Sun in 1994.

Ibragimbekov himself says that when Ilham Aliyev took over from his father, he
and other cultural figures were happy that a "young, progressive politician"
would run Azerbaijan . For the first few years, things were "more or less OK",
he says, but by 2007 it was clear that Mr Aliyev's rule was taking an ever more
authoritarian bent.

"At that time we thought the government was going in the wrong direction, and
noticed that the rampant corruption was becoming worse," he says, during an
interview at the Moscow office of his production company. He and other public
figures set up a forum of intellectuals, which met in Baku with the hope of
providing some gentle guidance for Mr Aliyev and his ruling clique, but they
found that the audience was far from receptive. "We invited the authorities to
have a dialogue with us, but instead what we got was dirt and accusations, and
stories slandering us planted in the media," he says.

Recently other critics have suffered worse fates. One journalist who
investigated corruption in Mr Aliyev's family had her house broken into and
cameras installed that filmed her having sex. When she refused to stop her
reporting, the video was posted online.

Ibragimbekov is not seen as a modern figure and is thus out of touch with the
young urban opposition to Mr Aliyev. However, he is seen by some as a
transitional figure who could unite disparate groups in their fight. "He is
known in Azerbaijan as a man who achieved huge success in his field," says Emin
Milli, an opposition blogger and journalist who spent more than a year in jail
after vocally criticising the government. "Everyone knows him and a lot of
people respect him. He wins a lot of support from people who would not have
supported the old opposition groups," Mr Milli says.

Ibragimbekov says he would be an interim president for two years, hold honest
and open parliamentary elections and a referendum to change the constitution to
create a parliamentary republic, with the president becoming a symbolic figure.
However, he is worried he could face arrest or even be killed on his return to
Azerbaijan so he remains in Moscow, drumming up international support for his
run against Mr Aliyev. He has recently returned from meetings at the State
Department in Washington and travelled to Brussels to meet with Catherine
Ashton, the EU's top foreign policy official.

How the regime will respond to his return to Baku, and whether or not he will be
arrested, is difficult to predict. Mr Aliyev has not left much room for nuance,
however, calling the opposition "anti-nationalist, corrupt and traitorous"
during a recent speech.

There has been an "unprecedented crackdown" in the past few months, according to
Rebecca Vincent, a former US diplomat posted to Baku who now works on human
rights issues there. "Rather than allowing a few reforms to let off steam
quickly and relieve pressure, they are doing the opposite and pushing things
much harder."

Ms Vincent estimates there are more than 80 political prisoners in the country
and points to worrying developments such as a change to the law on defamation
that could see people jailed for posts critical of the President or government
officials on Facebook or other social networks. In recent months there have been
several protests in regional cities, some of which turned violent in a sign
discontent may be growing.

"This regime is not as stable as Aliyev wants to sell it as or as the US or UK
establishments claim, and the riots we have seen in the regions could be a small
taste of what is to come," Mr Milli says. "This is a historic moment, because
the traditional opposition has never united at any point in the last 20 years."

While Ibragimbekov says he is convinced he can win honest elections and hopes
for a peaceful transition, he dodges the question of putting Mr Aliyev and his
family on trial. "I'm not a fan of recriminations, and I certainly don't want
bloodshed," he says. "But there would have to be some mechanism to return the
stolen money, at least."

As for what happens if the government decides to crack down on the opposition,
or obviously falsifies election results, he paints a dark picture. If discontent
starts to boil over, he says, there could be an "explosion" of popular feeling.
"Pushkin wrote that there is nothing worse than a merciless Russian uprising,"
he says, shaking his head. "But Pushkin had never seen an Azeri uprising."

ILHAM ALIYEV

LIFE IN BRIEF

Heydar Aliyev held a firm grip on Azerbaijan when he took power in 1993, two
years after the oil-rich nation gained independence from the Soviet Union.
Though he restored relative stability, his critics say it came at the cost of
human rights and media freedoms.

When Heydar died 10 years later, his son, Ilham, took over as President, winning
a landslide victory at the 2003 general election - plagued, according to Western
observers, by voter and opposition intimidation and media bias. Described by
Heydar as his "political successor", Ilham was well-prepared for office - he had
already served as Prime Minister, deputy leader of the ruling New Azerbaijan
Party (NAP) and vice-chairman of the state oil company.

Ilham won with ease his second term in office in a 2008 election boycotted by
the main opposition parties. Having successfully repealed a two-term
presidential limit in 2009, he is due to stand again in elections expected this
autumn.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Brexit blueprint could win author Euro 100,000

BYLINE: KUNAL DUTTA

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 429 words


Can Britain survive outside the European Union and, if it does, what might this
country look like? The Institute of Economic Affairs has pitched the question
with the prospect of a Euro 100,000 cash prize for the most compelling
submission.

The Brexit Prize, referring to talk about a British exit, or "Brexit", from the
EU, asks entrants to imagine that a referendum has resulted in an "Out" vote and
the Government has triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty.

They are then invited to compose a "Blueprint for Britain" outside the EU,
covering the process of withdrawal and the post-exit repositioning of the UK in
the global trading and governance systems. Judges include the former Chancellor
Nigel Lawson, broadcaster David Starkey and Tim Frost of the London School of
Economics.

The intervention comes amid deep questions over Britain's EU membership, with
the rise of Ukip and a promise by Tories to hold an in/out referendum. Business
leaders including Sir Richard Branson, Sir Roger Carr and Sir Martin Sorrell
have called for the UK to remain part of the EU, but to push for reforms to make
the bloc more competitive. Earlier this year, 19 prominent British business
leaders said a "Brexit" would lose the UK 37 trade agreements and the "colossal
bargaining power" of the 27-nation union.

They also trumpeted the benefits of closer integration on trade to include
digital, energy, transport and telecoms, arguing that deepening the single
market could more than double the economic benefits of EU membership and boost
Britain's GDP by £110bn. EU membership is thought to bring an extra £31bn to
£92bn into the economy.

Lord Lawson said: "To date much of this debate has generated more heat than
light. It is crucial that we should look into the policy framework that would be
needed if Britain decides to leave the EU.

"Now that we have been promised an in-out referendum on Britain and the EU in
2017, it is essential this momentous decision is preceded by a well-informed
debate. The winning entries in this competition will be an important
contribution to that process."

Mark Littlewood, director-general of the Institute of Economic Affairs, said:
"It is time for the EU debate to be dominated by serious thought rather than
bluster. There is an urgent need to consider the alternatives for Britain's
economic and constitutional position if we were to choose to leave the EU.

"Exit from the European Union now has to be considered to be a serious
possibility. The task of mapping out a successful future on the outside requires
serious thought and requires it now."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

MPs back Bill for referendum on EU withdrawal

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 636 words


A referendum on whether Britain should remain a member of the European Union
came a step closer yesterday when MPs overwhelmingly backed a public vote in
2017.

Conservative MPs put aside their differences over Britain's membership of the
EU, uniting in support of a backbench Bill to enshrine in law David Cameron's
promise of an in/out referendum. It was passed for a second reading by 304 votes
to nil. Most Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs abstained after their party leaders
dismissed it as a stunt, but six Labour Eurosceptics rebelled, voting in favour.

The Private Member's Bill is unlikely to become law because of a lack of
parliamentary time. But yesterday's huge majority will keep up the pressure for
a referendum - and for Labour to do U-turn and come out in favour of one so it
is not isolated at the 2015 election.

Mr Cameron, who joined the packed Tory benches for yesterday's debate, said
later the Commons decision had brought Parliament "one step closer to giving the
British people a say on Europe".

The EU (Referendum) Bill was introduced by James Wharton, the youngest Tory MP
at 29, who said generations of people had been denied a say on Europe since the
country decided to stay in at the 1975 referendum. He said: "I am not here today
to put an argument about whether we should be in or out ??? but that we should
let the British people have a say."

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, told the Commons it was "the right Bill,
at the right time". He said: "The efforts of those who want to build European
integration without bringing the people with them have been utterly
self-defeating."

Challenged by Labour MPs, Mr Hague said he would vote in a referendum "to stay
in a successfully reformed EU", as would Mr Cameron. Many Tory MPs have already
signalled that they would vote to pull out.

For Labour, Douglas Alexander, the shadow Foreign Secretary, said: "We do not
believe that an in/out referendum in 2017, as anticipated by this Bill, is in
the national interest." He said Mr Cameron's referendum pledge had been "driven
by weakness not by strength. This is about external electoral threats [from
Ukip] and internal leadership threats. This is not about trusting the people, it
is about these people [Tory MPs] not trusting the Prime Minister."

However, Mr Alexander refused to rule out a Labour change of heart on a
referendum before the 2015 election, and there are growing signs that it will
support one.

Keith Vaz, the Labour chairman of the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee,
told MPs: "I believe this should be done sooner rather than later. I believe
that we should do it now if we can. If not now, then certainly at the time of
the next general election."

Simon Hughes, the Lib Dems' deputy leader, said his constituents' priorities
were "jobs, growth and investment", which would be put at risk by the
uncertainty over EU membership caused by the spectre of a 2017 referendum.

EXIT FROM BRUSSELS

THE TIMETABLE

Although the European Union (Referendum) Bill easily cleared its first hurdle
yesterday, that was the easy part. It will now be considered by a committee of
MPs, giving Labour opponents a chance to sabotage it during a game of
parliamentary cat and mouse.

Labour is expected to table lots of amendments. Crucially, it is a backbench
rather than government measure because the Liberal Democrats do not want to
enshrine a referendum in law, so it will have limited parliamentary time.

Opponents will have another chance to talk out the Bill when it reaches its
report stage in the autumn. Even if it survives that and wins a third reading,
it is unlikely to pass the House of Lords, where again time would be limited.

And even if it became law a future Labour government or Lib-Lab coalition could
overturn it. Politically, however, it would be difficult to deny the public a
say.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Barking Bone's Bill is a triumph of democracy;
McSmith OUR MAN IN WESTMINSTER

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 390 words


BECAUSE MPS SPENT so long arguing over an EU referendum, we had only a very
shortened version of what promised to be the best parliamentary entertainment of
the season yesterday. After the EU debate, it was the turn of Peter Bone, the
high eminence of the barking tendency on the Tory side, to introduce a Bill
under which the last Monday in August would be known, by law, as Margaret
Thatcher Day.

This is delightfully bonkers and everybody involved entered into the spirit of
it by behaving like infants. Mr Bone's speech opened with the word "now". Why he
said "now", I cannot tell, because he was immediately interrupted by a Tory
whip, Robert Syms, who cried out: "Object!"

To what was Mr Syms objecting? Nobody knows. I don't think he knew. Mr Bone
curtly told him "You can't object" - so he didn't. I don't think he even meant
to. The word kind of popped out at the wrong moment.

Mr Bone was now able to begin a whole sentence but not, alas, to complete it,
because the Labour MP Thomas Docherty interrupted to raise a point of order. It
was to suggest that Mr Syms read the rule book to improve his grip on
parliamentary procedure. Mr Bone soldiered on. "Baroness Thatcher was without
doubt one of the greatest prime ministers in living memory," he declared.

He was interrupted again, this time by the Deputy Speaker, Lindsay Hoyle, who
complained that MPs were making too much noise and called on them to be quiet.

"Mrs Thatcher was a great stateswoman, a true patriot, and an inspiration to the
masses," Mr Bone declared, getting into his stride. "She not only did our
country a great service but gave Britain back its pride and returned it to
prosperity after some of the darkest economic days in recent decades. She gave
us a legacy to be proud of. It is rare to find???"

What is rare to find? We know not, because there was another interruption. Two
Labour MPs had points of order - but were they genuine points of order, or just
time wasters, Mr Hoyle demanded to know. The two Labour MPs sat down.

"This was a politician with such great courage and conviction," Mr Bone
declaimed.

And that was it. The clock said 2.30pm. Time was up.

The Bill to rename the August Bank Holiday Margaret Thatcher Day has almost no
chance of even being discussed in Parliament again, let alone becoming law.

a.mcsmith@independent.co.uk

Twitter: @andymcsmith

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Will Ed win this EU battle, but lose the war?;
Politics

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 838 words


Let us praise Ed Miliband. This is micro-politics, a bit of Jane Austen's ivory,
two inches wide, worked with the fine brush of Westminster procedure, but the
Labour leader has managed to neutralise for the moment the larger threat of
Europe. This Friday, there will be a vote in the Commons on a private member's
Bill to hold an EU referendum by the end of 2017, introduced by James Wharton,
the young Conservative MP for Stockton South. But it will be a charade.

David Cameron will be there, but as Tory leader rather than Prime Minister. The
only MPs actually voting will be Conservatives (and a few Ulster unionists).
Labour and Liberal Democrats will stay away, although Douglas Alexander, the
shadow foreign secretary, will be on the opposition front bench and will explain
why Labour is abstaining.

Miliband's micro-triumph has been to encourage Labour's Eurosceptic MPs to join
the boycott of the vote. I don't know how many of them will join the Tories in
the Aye lobby on Friday. The Bill provides for exactly what they want, namely a
referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union by the end of 2017, but
most of them have been persuaded not to vote for it on the grounds that it is a
"Tory" Bill and that they have not been consulted about it.

Because Labour and the Lib Dems refuse to oppose the Bill, it could just go
through on the nod, but that would be no good for the Tories at all. They want a
vote to take place, even if it is a charade. For them, the counting of the votes
matters almost as much as the Bill becoming law. They want to be able to say to
their constituents that they have voted for a referendum. So far only 81 of them
can say that - those who rebelled against the Government in October 2011.

It is possible that one or two MPs will vote against the Bill. There are many
who are opposed either to this referendum or to referendums in principle, but
there are very few who are prepared to record a vote to say so. So the
Conservative Party in Parliament will stage a vote, in effect unopposed, merely
for show. Most entertainingly, the party members' newsletter, otherwise known as
The Daily Telegraph, pretended yesterday to be shocked to discover that the Bill
wouldn't guarantee that there will be a referendum even if it does pass - and
there is a lot more procedure to come, including in the House of Lords.

It was the first time in the history of journalism that a newspaper led its
front page with a principle of the British constitution, namely that no
parliament can bind its successor, which has not been "news" since the time of
Simon de Montfort.

For Miliband, then, so far, so good. But if he looks up from his two inches of
ivory, he will see the great fissure over Europe zigzagging towards him, tearing
the substructure of British politics apart. As in 1971, 1974-5 and 1993, the
question of Europe is going to divide both main parties. But which will be more
divided, and who will manage the tensions better?

Painting Wharton's private member's Bill as a meaningless Tory propaganda device
is one thing, but the question will keep coming back, and at the European
Parliament elections next year and the general election the year after, it will
be harder for the Labour Party's policy to be not having a policy. I think
Miliband is tempted to give it a try, though. What he could say, which has the
advantage of being self-evident, is that a referendum is not a policy, it is a
mechanism. Labour is in favour of EU membership, and thinks that the people
ought to have the chance to renew their approval of it, but now is not the time
because the EU is going through a period of change. Let's have a vote when the
euro crisis is over.

The trouble is that, however sane, balanced and sensible, it sounds bad. Against
the simple-minded demand for the people to "have a say" on Europe, "yes but not
yet" sounds like a political evasion.

Never mind that the Tory party's divisions are much deeper. For nearly half the
party's members and MPs, the demand for a referendum is a way of saying that
Britain should leave the EU while trying to borrow some of the sanity, balance
and sense of those who want to stay but accept that continued membership
requires direct democratic approval. The exact proportion of Tories who have
decided to go is confused by opinion polls that ask "what if" David Cameron
renegotiates the terms of our membership and recommends staying in. A YouGov
poll for Professor Tim Bale at Queen Mary, University of London last month found
that 54 per cent of Tory members would vote to stay in on that basis.

But for Labour, this comes down to votes. Miliband's principles will count for
nothing if he thinks Labour will lose votes by being opposed to the people
"having a say". He'll bravely hold the line this Friday, but in the autumn, or
early next year, I suspect that Labour will decide that the only way to "end the
uncertainty" is to promise a referendum too.

John Rentoul is chief political commentator for 'The Independent on Sunday'

Twitter: @JohnRentoul

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Party lines drawn over Europe vote

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 258 words


Nick Clegg criticised David Cameron's plans for a Europe referendum and to
reward marriage in the tax system yesterday, as he distanced the Liberal
Democrats from their coalition partners.

The Deputy Prime Minister hit back at Mr Cameron's call for the Lib Dems to "get
off the fence" on Europe and portrayed the Conservatives as backward-looking on
marriage. He was speaking at the first of his monthly news conferences, and made
clear he will use them to differentiate his party from the Tories as the
election approaches.

After the PM promised Tory MPs he would honour his pledge to bring in
transferable tax allowances for married couples, Mr Clegg suggested the money
would be better spent on a tax break to help working families with their child
care costs. He said: "This desire of the Conservative Party to hand-pick couples
through the tax system who conform to their image of how you should conduct your
life, I don't think it's fair."

Europe is back on the agenda because the Tory high command supports a backbench
bill to guarantee an in/out referendum in 2017 - to be debated by the Commons on
Friday. Mr Clegg, below, argued the Tories had repeatedly changed their position
while Lib Dems remained consistent. He said his party would back an in/out
referendum when a new EU treaty emerged.

Vince Cable, Lib Dem Business Secretary, described the referendum as "a serious
distraction". He said: "We're recovering from the worst economic crisis for a
century.

"The last thing we need is massive levels of uncertainty in the business
community."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Labour and Lib Dems may stay away from EU referendum vote

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH and BRIAN BRADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 382 words


The three main parties traded blows yesterday in an increasingly bitter spat
over a House of Commons vote on an EU referendum.

Labour and the Liberal Democrats have warned that their MPs may stay away from
the vote on Friday, which could pave the way for an in/out referendum on EU
membership in 2017.

Danny Alexander, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and the second-most senior
Liberal Democrat in the Cabinet, said he would be away in the Highlands when the
vote is held. The shadow Business Secretary Chuka Umunna predicted most Labour
MPs would be absent.

The leadership of both of their parties are opposed to the idea of an in/out
referendum in 2017 and warn the move could undermine the economy.

However, James Wharton, the Tory MP piloting the Private Member's Bill, forecast
it would still get passed and accused Ed Miliband of being "weak" for not lining
up his party in support of it, claiming his "Shadow Cabinet is split down the
middle" on the issue.

Mr Wharton's Private Member's Bill has created a rift between the coalition
parties and has put the unity of the Shadow Cabinet under strain.

Speaking to journalists during his visit to Pakistan yesterday, the Prime
Minister urged MPs to "get off the fence" and support the referendum Bill. "I
would say to all MPs, 'Turn up and vote'," he said, adding: "The Liberal
Democrats have to make up their mind: do they want to give the British people a
say or do they not?"

But Mr Alexander described the Bill as a "stunt" during an appearance on the
BBC's Andrew Marr Show, insisting the push for a referendum was for "domestic
political reasons".

Mr Umunna said: "We are not getting involved in what is basically an internal
debate in the Conservative Party. We won't be there."

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable will today help
launch a new cross-party campaign to keep Britain in the EU. The campaign is
also backed by 171 business leaders.

On the other side, John Mills, a major donor to the Labour Party who has been
campaigning for a referendum, claimed that "half" the Shadow Cabinet and "a
majority" of Labour supporters were in favour of a referendum. "I really hope
Labour MPs will back this. I am disappointed that Ed Miliband is too weak to
lead his party on it," he told Sky TV's Murnaghan programme.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

SO, HANDS UP IF YOU KNOW WHO YOUR MEP IS...;
They're voted in by us, paid for by us and yet, according to a new poll, remain
virtually unknown to the public. Rob Hastings talks to our representatives in
Brussels to find out who they are and what they do

BYLINE: Rob Hastings

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1570 words


It's just past noon in the smoking booth of the members bar in Strasbourg's
European Parliament, and Nigel Farage is in familiar demonstrative mood.
"Gentlemen, here's to the first of the day," he declares, raising his chalice of
beer in one hand before taking a drag from a cigarette with the other.

Going by the amount of media attention the UKIP leader receives compared to his
counterparts, you could be forgiven for thinking Farage is the only MEP the UK
bothers to send across the Channel. Many people also believe this is all they
do: quaff alcohol and take advantage of one of the few public places in Europe
to have escaped a smoking ban, and all at our expense.

At a Brussels summit with other EU leaders, which concluded yesterday, David
Cameron pushed for cuts to European red tape and even took a Brussels-funded
colouring book for children about the life of "Mr and Mrs MEP" to dinner with
him as an example of money-wasting.

He will return to the debate over Britain's membership of the EU that is set to
rumble for years until a referendum. But very few Britons know who our MEPs are;
still fewer seem to know - or care - about what they do.

Britain has 73 MEPs, but a poll by YouGov for The Independent has found that 95
per cent of the British public could not name one representing their area. It
doesn't bode well for the European elections in less than a year's time. So what
actually goes on in the European Parliament? And would attitudes to Europe
change if we knew more about how the EU works?

Sitting in his small office inside the Strasbourg parliament, Charles Tannock, a
Tory representing London who has been ranked as the UK's hardest-working MEP, is
under no illusions about what most voters back home think how he and his
colleagues spend their time. "Drinking champagne, milling around, having a good
time and not doing very much," he says, summing the up the eternal image of the
European "gravy train".

Numerous scandals over the years have bolstered that image. In 2010, several
British MEPs were filmed turning up to the parliament to claim a day's allowance
- only to immediately rush to catch the Eurostar home. Four MEPs from other
nations have since been caught offering to make law amendments for cash -
leading to one, Austria's Ernst Strasser, being jailed.

MEPs have also been criticised for employing their partners as researchers and
office managers - though given how long Mr Tannock, like others, has to spend
away from home and from his wife, the argument that working together is one of
the best ways to remain together does not seem unfair.

As I follow him around the soaring wood-panelled building in Strasbourg, the
55-year-old former consultant psychiatrist appears a committed workaholic. He
votes and makes speeches amid the Star Wars décor of the massive Hemicycle
debating chamber; he attends committee meetings discussing policy minutiae on
topics as varied as Gaza, Libya, Albania and the Horn of Africa; he negotiates
with the Israeli ambassador to the EU and the Taiwanese embassy; he holds talks
with the Foreign Office.

Specialising as a rapporteur in foreign affairs, he seems half-politician
half-diplomat, dealing primarily with matters abroad. But even if Mr Tannock
were knee-deep in matters more directly affecting domestic politics, would UK
voters back home hear anything of his efforts? Probably not.

"There's a lack of serious media coverage of the EU institutions," he bemoans.
"The tabloids, who spend their time slagging off everything that the EU does,
don't have a single journalist in Brussels, so they rely on hearsay and the
rumour mill."

MEPs are not helped by their constituencies being so big -some have to try to
reach up to 10 million voters. Speaking to others, the same complaint of how
hard it is to engage with voters - and even MPs from their own parties - returns
time and again.

"I pay for newspaper advertisements and billboards but I receive almost no
publicity about my speeches or other activities in parliament," one says.
Another adds the level of political and media debate on European politics in the
UK is "appalling" with "very poor public knowledge, even though we have been
members for 40 years".

Even their counterparts back in Westminster don't help, says another, claiming
they "demean themselves" by "revelling in their own ignorance" of the EU.

But Nicholas Walton, the communications director on foreign relations at the
European Council, doesn't buy that argument. "I feel so sorry for the MEPs who
still think that we should care much more about them. We shouldn't - bollocks to
them," he says. "There are so many things we need to be aware of in this world;
knowing about the exact machinations of what happens in Brussels and a bunch of
- quite frankly - political also-rans is not that high up on the agenda. I say
that as someone who is fundamentally pro-European."

The "political also-rans" put-down is popular among Eurosceptics, who scowl at
the number of MEPs who turned to Europe after failing to win a Westminster seat.
Asked by The Independent what he thinks of his fellow Britons in the parliament,
one UKIP MEP replies that he is "as impressed as I am by the meat-eating calibre
of certain vegetarians".

The parliament's working arrangements do little to aid its image - especially
the so-called "Strasbourg circus". The immense parliament complex in this
eastern French city was designed with exasperatingly little concern for anyone
trying to walk from one part to another, but it is undeniably impressive to look
at. Most of the time, however, it remains merely a monument, empty and unused.

The members, their assistants and the civil servants spend most of their time at
the duplicate Parliament compound in Brussels. Once a month they travel en masse
to Strasbourg to hold all their votes in "plenary sessions". The vast majority
of MEPs complain it is an immense waste of money, yet the French government
insists Strasbourg must maintain its seat for historic symbolism of unity with
Germany.

As for the level of bureaucracy - every Eurosceptic's favourite complaint - one
MEP's assistant tells me it is indeed "astonishing", saying: "There are 1,000
forms to fill out at all times, even to organise the simplest of meetings.
Everything you want to do involves filling a form in."

The paperwork can be surprisingly intrusive; on applying for his parliamentary
pass, he was surprised to discover he had to be tested for sexually transmitted
diseases before he could take up his job. "Evidently they don't want any sluts
working for the EU," he says - though perhaps it's the desperate desire to break
free from all this paperwork which means the parliament can be, in his words, a
"massive fuck-fest".

For all its faults, the thought of the UK pulling out of this hive of
international cooperation feels irresponsible. Watching Mr Tannock hard at work
chairing a meeting or battling for EU communiques to reflect British interests
as far as possible, brings home what Britain would lose were it to leave.

Mr Tannock defines himself as a Euro realist - believing things need to change
but: "It would be very humiliating for a country like Britain, with 60 million
people, to have to adopt legislation without MEPs in Parliament," he says.
"Everything is more complicated than you think - the thought we could withdraw
and get out of it is a myth. That's a real democratic deficit."

"This is the time for the Conservative Party to rally behind Cameron and show a
united front, as he has delivered on a promise for an in-or-out EU referendum
for 2017," he says. "That will be the time - when the extent of British
repatriation of powers, and eurozone integration, will have become more apparent
- for the British people to settle this divisive issue once and for all."

MEPs from other countries are only too aware of Britain's uncertain position.
Spotting The Independent's photographer lining up a portrait of Mr Tannock, an
ebullient Polish MEP strides forward. Beaming as he shakes Mr Tannock's hand,
Jacek Saryusz-Wolski faces the camera and says: "This is to mark the final
moment before Britain leaves the European Union."

Does he really think that will happen? "Absolutely!" he cries, "I look forward
to it." He appears to be joking. By 2017 - or earlier if our backbenchers get
their way - he may not.

POLITICS LESSON

THE QUIZ

1 How many MEPs are there?

a) 754

b) 845

c) 854

2 Which actor, who took part in British TV's first gay kiss, became a Labour MEP
in 1999?

a) Michael Cashman, from EastEnders

b) Vince Earl, from Brookside

c) Kevin Pallister, from Emmerdale

3 Before tax, what is an MEP's gross annual salary?

a) Euro 66,396

b) Euro 88,585

c) Euro 95,472

4 What is an MEP's annual expenses allowance, covering office management and
computers?

a) Euro 51,588

b) Euro 61,588

c) Euro 71,588

5 How much do they get for food and accommodation per day worked in Parliament?

a) Euro 104 - they fight for cheap deals at Strasbourg's Best Western

b) Euro 304 - enough for a stay at the Novotel and room service

c) Euro 504 - deluxe living at the Cour du Corbeau

6 Which of the following party leaders enjoyed a stint as an MEP.?

a) David Cameron

b) Ed Miliband

c) Nick Clegg

7 Which of the following is not one of the European Parliament's three main
roles?

a) Debating and passing European laws

b) Scrutinising how each member state implements European laws

c) Scrutinising other EU institutions

Answers: 1a 2a 3c 4a 5b 6c 7b

LIAM O'BRIEN

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            June 19, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Another startling fact about Mr Hague...;
DONALD MACINTYRE'S SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 352 words


Maybe he was simply overwhelmed with pride at so many world leaders gathering in
Northern Ireland. But the DUP's Reverend William McCrea's uncharacteristically
lyrical question to William Hague about "hopes for successful negotiations" on
an EU-US trade agreement during the "G8 discussions in the beautiful
surroundings of Fermanagh" was surprising. If he had his way we wouldn't be in
the EU - which the South Antrim MP recently described as "a bureaucratic
monstrosity that robs the coffers of our nation".

Was Commons europhobia melting at the prospect of a deal the Foreign Secretary
confirmed would bring £100bn to EU members? Surely not. Either way Hague was
later prompted to recall how during the last European referendum - when he was
just 14 - "I had a big influence on how my family voted".

Another startling fact about the Foreign Secretary's precocious adolescence!
Instead of being out with mates doing wheelies on his Stingray bike, he was
boring his relatives rigid, presumably insisting they line up with the - then -
pro-European Opposition leader Margaret Thatcher in the 1975 vote. And this was
just two years before he became the youngest ever speaker at the Tory
conference, a highlight of his teenage years, during which, he has claimed, he
used to drink 14 pints of beer a day while on a delivery round.

Foreign Office Questions were otherwise dominated by Syria, and a bizarre
episode of non-verbal communication after Speaker John Bercow sought to reassure
a sceptical Peter Hain that Hague was "hinting that they would not dream of
arming rebel forces??? without first seeking a debate in the House and a
vote???". Since Hague nodded as he spoke, Bercow ruled he had given an "explicit
commitment" to such a vote. This stretched the meaning of "explicit" but most
MPs seemed satisfied.

Pressed on illegal Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory, Hague
was asked whether he himself bought from them. "I am not in close control of the
fresh produce purchased in the Hague household, since certain of my other duties
interfere with that." Diplomatic as ever. But still a cop-out.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Miliband needs to hold out against EU referendum;
Labour

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 861 words


Seen from within the cosy confines of Westminster, the question of whether Ed
Miliband will match David Cameron's pledge to hold an In/Out referendum on EU
membership by the end of 2017 is little more than part of an absorbing electoral
chess game. And judged like that, the answer for many spectators - inside as
well as outside the Labour Party - is fairly obvious. Is Miliband really
prepared to put up with the repeated taunts from Cameron that the People's Party
does not trust the people? Especially when several prominent Labour figures, Ed
Balls included, have urged him to go for it.

After all, Labour has already decided to abstain in next month's second reading
of the Private Member's Bill from the Tory Eurosceptic MP James Wharton, which
seeks to enshrine Cameron's commitment in legislation. Publication of the Bill
is expected this week. Isn't this the first step towards accepting the
inevitable and endorsing a referendum? And if it isn't, shouldn't it be?

That isn't - so far at least - how Miliband sees it. Again you can construct all
sorts of explanations for this - that he is some covertly fanatical Europhile,
that he is too much an ivory tower intellectual and too little of a political
tactician, that he is an elitist who thinks some issues are too complicated to
be put in front of the wider public, and so on. The real reason, I suspect, is
at once simpler and, to many, more surprising; that the Labour leader is driven
more by a conviction that he will win the next election than by a fear that he
will lose it. The fact that lots of people, including quite a few in his own
party, don't fully share that conviction isn't relevant here. If you think you
are going to be a Labour Prime Minister after 2015, the referendum question
begins to look rather different.

For a start, thanks to a timetable not of his own choosing, his first period of
office would be overwhelmed by preparations for a referendum on an issue which
all the polls suggest, Ukip's surge notwithstanding, is not of primary concern
to the voters. Second, he would have a strong prospect of losing it. If Cameron,
should he remain as Prime Minister, can do a 1975 Harold Wilson and come back
from his negotiations with a few improvements, however cosmetic, to Britain's EU
settlement, he would have a sporting chance of winning a referendum despite the
opposition of many in his own party but with the support of most of the Labour
Party and the Liberal Democrats.

For Miliband - up against a Tory party which had summarily ditched Cameron and
Osborne and which was now seeking to revive its fortunes under a charismatic
leader who owed his mandate to those MPs and activists who want out of Europe -
a referendum defeat is a real possibility. You don't have to believe that these
are lousy circumstances in which to decide Britain's 21st-century place in the
world in order to see what an unpalatable prospect that would be.

For a prime minister - and probably his government - the loss of an EU
referendum would be disastrous. Even if it could limp on until 2020, possibly
engulfed by a sterling crisis triggered by deep economic uncertainty, the
Government's credibility - rather like Harold Wilson's after devaluation in 1967
or John Major's after Black Wednesday in 1992 - would be fatally undermined. To
use the memorable phrase coined more than 15 years ago by Ken Clarke - in the
context of EMU - Miliband would be "betting the ranch" on a referendum, and with
every possibility of losing it.

To sustain his resistance to the idea of a referendum, Miliband needs to
persuade both his shadow Cabinet and, ideally, the wider electorate. As far as
the first is concerned, it isn't actually clear - at present, at least - that
Cameron and Osborne, who probably on balance don't want to leave the EU if they
can help it, will fight the 2015 election with Europe at the heart of their
campaign. It hasn't worked in the past and, in any case, they are likelier to
concentrate on the proposition that the economy was healing, that the mess was
all Labour's fault, and that Miliband isn't a credible Prime Minister. Which
means that the failure to pledge a 2017 referendum may not be quite such an
electoral liability, as some enthusiasts for one argue.

Labour plans to promote its own EU reform programme, which it can plausibly
argue has a better chance of acceptance in multilateral negotiations, but
probably on a longer timetable than for Cameron's planned unilateral
negotiation. Already committed to a referendum in the event of significant
Treaty changes which affect Britain, it may have to go further and acknowledge
that an In/Out referendum will eventually be needed, but not on an artificial
timetable set to appease the Tory Europhobes.

On the one hand, Tory taunts won't go away if Miliband continues to resist
matching Cameron's pledge. But on the other, his own credibility could be at
risk if he is seen to bow opportunistically to short-term pressure. Continued
resistance to the siren voices in favour of a 2017 referendum won't be easy. But
even in chess, sometimes it's necessary to sacrifice a piece to focus on the
endgame.

d.macintyre@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Gezi Park protesters win a concession, but Erdogan insists they must still
leave;
Court will decide on future of project that was catalyst for unrest across
Turkey

BYLINE: RICHARD HALL in Istanbul

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 499 words


Protesters fighting to save an Istanbul Park from redevelopment claimed a small
victory yesterday after the Turkish government agreed to suspend controversial
plans for the area until a court has ruled on the legality of the project.

The concession on the fate of Gezi Park was seen as an attempt by the Prime
Minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to address the central demand of protesters and
bring an end to a wave of demonstrations that have rocked Turkey in the past two
weeks.

However the temporary reprieve did little to ease fears among those camped in
the park, as Mr Erdogan again called on them to leave, saying they had "stayed
long enough".

"You have stayed here as long as you could and have relayed your message. If
your message is about Gezi Park, it has been received and evaluated," Mr Erdogan
said. "Please now leave Gezi Park and go to your homes."

A crackdown by police on what was initially a small demonstration against plans
to build a shopping centre where the park now stands has sparked large-scale
protests across Turkey.

Five people have been killed in clashes between police and protesters, drawing
condemnation from the international community, including the European
Parliament. On Tuesday, police twice tried to clear nearby Taksim Square by
firing volleys of tear gas into the crowd. Protesters responded by launching
fireworks towards police, and violence continued into the early hours of the
morning.

Members of Taksim Solidarity, the umbrella group of organisations representing
protesters camped in Gezi Park, met with Mr Erdogan in Ankara on Thursday
evening in a bid to find a solution to the stand-off, which has shown little
sign of abating.

Taksim Solidarity said Mr Erdogan had promised to abide by the outcome of a
court case filed in an effort to stop the redevelopment and would hold a
referendum on the plans if the court found in the government's favour.

Tayfun Kahraman, a member of the protest group, told reporters following the
meeting: "The prime minister said that if the results of the public vote turned
out in a way which would leave this area as a park, they will abide by it.

"His comments that the project will not be executed until the judiciary makes
its decision is tonight's positive result."

Protester numbers have been buoyed by those angry at the police crackdown. Mr
Erdogan's opponents have also grown increasingly angry about what they see as
the erosion of secular Turkish values under his Islamic-rooted party's
government, and over his authoritarian leadership style. Turkey recently passed
new restrictions on alcohol and attempted to limit women's access to abortion.

In Gezi Park yesterday afternoon, protesters showed little sign of wanting to
take down their tents.

Ali Can, a protester and resident of the park for the past week, pointed out:
"[Mr Erdogan] did not agree to release those who have been arrested during
protests. He did not agree to allow us use public squares for democratic
meetings and he again told us to leave."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Has the Syrian crisis exposed Cameron's failings in foreign affairs?;
INSIDE WESTMINSTER

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 673 words


David Cameron intended the G8 summit in Northern Ireland starting on Monday to
be dominated by his much-trumpeted "three Ts" -trade, tax and transparency. They
may now be overshadowed by the S-word - Syria, as the other G8 members ratchet
up the pressure on Russia over the growing crisis in Syria.

The shifting spotlight may suit Mr Cameron. He has won plaudits from aid
agencies for being the first leader to make a big effort to crack down on
anonymous shell companies and offshore and onshore corporate secrecy. But his
ambitious proposals are unlikely to be adopted by the G8 in full. "You never at
any of these conferences shoot the lights out and hit every target," he said as
he prepared to chair the summit at Loch Erne, County Fermanagh.

When he put the "three Ts" at the top of Britain's agenda for its year heading
the G8, it looked worthy rather than sexy. But public anger at tax avoidance
measures by big names such as Google, Starbucks, Amazon, Vodafone and Apple has
turned the issue into one for the drinker in the Dog and Duck. A year ago,
Britain would probably have opposed the demands for countries to disclose who
owns and controls companies and to automatically exchange tax information on
businesses and individuals that it is now urging the G8 to adopt. The tipping
point for the Treasury was the link to terrorist funding in northern Africa
using shell companies.

Being impetuous on foreign affairs is a charge levelled at Mr Cameron by Tory
MPs and ministers. It has bubbled to the surface on Syria, where he has led so
strongly from the front over arming the anti-Assad rebels that he risks cutting
himself off. There is no guarantee Mr Cameron would secure a Commons majority
and several Cabinet ministers fear that sending arms would make a bad situation
worse. "He is trying to re-play his greatest hit - Libya - but Syria is very
different," said one Cabinet minister.

The hardening United States line against the Assad regime amid growing evidence
about its use of chemical weapons will give Mr Cameron some much-needed cover.
But the criticism remains valid. Older Cabinet heads grumble that recent events
have also shown that Mr Cameron lacks a coherent strategy on Europe.

His Great Speech in January's promise of an in/out referendum by 2017 was
designed to kick the issue beyond the 2015 election. Instead, Mr Cameron kicked
the ball into his own net. The speech played into the hands of the UK
Independence Party, handing Nigel Farage the precious oxygen of publicity, and
Tory Eurosceptics demanded an earlier referendum. It settled nothing.

Abroad, the address also played badly. In the EU, Mr Cameron's "new settlement"
was seen as a demand for special favours for Britain that other EU members are
not prepared to give. So he has had to sweep up his own diplomatic mess,
reassuring our EU partners that he is proposing reforms that will benefit the
27-nation bloc as a whole. This, in turn, has angered the Tory Eurosceptics, who
are itching to see his long shopping list of powers to be returned from Brussels
to London. It does not exist because it would be rejected by the EU. Mr Cameron
is stalling for time, but another crunch will come.

In opposition, Mr Cameron styled himself a "liberal interventionist" on foreign
affairs but, in an attempt to differentiate himself from Tony Blair, argued that
"you can't drop democracy on a country from 30,000 feet".

Allies insist the Prime Minister is the ultimate pragmatist. This week, he
described the UK as "the small island with the big footprint in the world" and
mapped out what Mr Blair would have called a "third way". He rejected the idea
that fighting Britain's corner makes us "Little Englanders", which pleased
Europhobes. But he also argued that it is in the national interest to engage
with bodies like the G8 and EU rather than "withdraw from the world", which
delighted Europhiles. He will struggle to keep both sides happy for long. Mr
Cameron may be a pragmatist, but leads a party dominated by ideologues on the
critical issue of Europe.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 14, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Patten: Eurosceptics could set us on a suicidal path

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Prime Minister

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 184 words


Hardline Conservative Eurosceptics determined to get Britain out of the European
Union could set the party on a route to "political suicide", Lord Patten has
warned.

The former Tory chairman, now chairman of the BBC, yesterday urged fractious MPs
to rally behind David Cameron, telling them: "Parties that don't look united
don't win elections."

He said it would be "perfectly possible" for Mr Cameron to renegotiate the terms
of Britain's membership of the EU that should be acceptable to the country. But
he added: "If your response to that is that nothing would be acceptable, then I
think that would be bad news for the Conservative Party.

"If nothing is acceptable, I recall Winston Churchill's very wise observation
that the problem with political suicide is that you live to regret it."

Speaking at a Westminster lunch, Lord Patten said displays of disunity could
sink the Tories' chances at the next election. Meanwhile, Labour has announced
it would abstain in a Commons vote next month on holding a referendum on EU
membership, which has been tabled as a Private Member's Bill with Mr Cameron's
support.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Maria Miller started it. She invaded the First World War commemoration;
First World War

BYLINE: MATTHEW NORMAN

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1036 words


As skirmishing over the approaching centenary of the First World War begins, we
turn for guidance to the leading British historian of the day. I refer not to Dr
David Starkey, the headline-grabbing Niall Ferguson, or the KFC heir Andrew
Roberts. Splendid as the above are, none compares in scholarship and intellect
to Maria Miller, the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport.

Ms Miller may have no interest in culture, know little of the workings of the
media, and not be especially interested in sport. We all have our blind spots,
and Ms Miller's should be set against the brilliance of her insight into the
First World War, the commemoration of which she will oversee if she somehow
survives the next reshuffle.

The thing about the war that ravaged this continent from 1914-1918, she observed
this week with the sort of carefully weighted analysis to which Twitter is so
ideally suited, is that it "ensured Europe could continue to be a set of
countries which were strong". Oh, but didn't it, though? This is exactly what
they said in Weimar Germany, as they steered the wheelbarrows overflowing with
bank notes through the streets in the hope that 177bn marks would be enough for
half a loaf.

"My dear Dieter," one would say to another (I translate loosely) as their
barrows came to a halt in the bakery queue, "I never thought I would say this,
what with losing my four sons at the Somme, but mit hindsight the war was a
truly excellent thing. For it ensured that not only the Fatherland but all the
countries of Europe could continue to be strong. Who knows, perhaps Herr Hitler
will make us stronger yet?"

With this curious implication that the war was a pan-European endeavour to
entrench democracy and lasting peace, you can at once discern a cultural
influence on what we will dignify as Ms Miller's thinking. Here, she was clearly
sampling Noël Coward's Don't Let's Be Beastly To The Germans, which he wrote in
1943 with victory in the Second World War in sight. Ms Miller's implicit plea
that we avoid taking sides over who was to blame for the First comes in
different circumstances, and the Government understandably wishes to suffocate
any nascent Hun-bashing in the womb.

You do not kick your richest and most powerful allies in the balls, as Harold
Wilson almost put it when berated for not taking a stronger anti-Vietnam line.
Any Jingoistic celebrations would further inflame hostilty towards the EU that
Germany has come to dominate, and do nothing to help whoever is Prime Minister
after the next election win the referendum on membership. Given all this, the
multitude and complexity of the forces that drove Europe to war in 1914 are a
boon to Ms Miller and her boss, since they seemingly leave room for moral
equivalence between the protagonists.

When the time comes to commemorate the Second World War, it will be hard not to
be beastly to the Germans, since no one in their right mind disputes the casus
belli or the justice of Britain's involvement. It's all a long time ago, and
let's put it behind us (though God knows how, to continue lifting from Basil
Fawlty, the bastards). I mentioned it in print once, and thought I had got away
with it.

But the Germans are still a little touchy on the matter, and for no better
reason than some retrospective blue-skies thinking about how the post-Second
World War settlement might have been improved - 1) transport every German to
sub-Saharan Africa as slave labour; 2) punish the Vichy French by moving them
into Germany; and 3) seize France as a holiday home for the British - the German
diplomat took umbrage. We met for a rapprochement lunch in a Bayswater
restaurant styled after a Bavarian hunting lodge, and despite inexplicably
seeming a bit sleep-starved that day (September 13, 2001), he was a charming
chap who said that his uncle had been part of a plot to kill Hitler (a claim
made by as few as 23 million Germans).

Having learned from that encounter, I stick to the solemn vow taken then never
to be beastly to the Germans again. And yet, while the First World War is not as
easily understood or morally simplistic as the successor set in train by the
actual post-war settlement at Versailles, it would be absurd if the
commemoration misrepresented it on Ms Miller's lines.

Until her tweeted analysis, the most respected historian of the period was S
Baldrick, Edmund Blackadder's Flanders trenchmate, who sourced the First World
War to the moment "Archie Duke shot an ostrich because he was hungry". A
historian of Ms Miller's stature might marginally amend that, positing that the
assassination of the Austro-Hungarian Arch Duke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo
activated the byzantine range of treaty obligations which led to war. But others
will risk her outrage by arguing that Germany had been preparing for war for a
couple of years, and that honouring the promise to support Austria against
Serbia was a pretext to prosecute an existing plan for European domination.

Even today, there is no rigid consensus over whether the deaths of some 800,000
donkey-led lions was as monumentally pointless as the best poetry of the era
suggests, or whether they died in the mud in a just war to safeguard freedom.
Many of the more reliable historians believe that they did, however, and it
would be a betrayal of their memory and their sacrifice were that argument
stifled just to avoid distressing delicate sensibilities in Bonn and Berlin.

If, on the other hand, Ms Miller cleaves to her apparent conviction that the
First World War was a six of one, half a dozen of the other affair which
blessedly preserved the strength and integrity of European nations - even a kind
of proto-EU - she should launch the commemoration next July with a Cowardesque
turn at the piano. To this end, I have updated the first two verses of the song,
and will supply more as and when required.

Don't let's be beastly to the Germans

When it was all such a long, long time ago.

Let's finally square the circle,

By being nice to Mrs Merkel

And blame a random death in Sarajevo.

It behoves us to surmise a

Better reason than the Kaiser

Wanting to place us under the German thumb.

So let sycophancy flower

'Cause they have all the power

And don't let's be beastly to the Hun.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron warned EU will ignore demands for 'special treatment';
MPs urge Prime Minister to seek compromise in bid to return powers to London

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 555 words


David Cameron has been warned that he will fail to win a "new settlement" for
Britain inside the European Union if he demands "special favours".

In a report to be published today, the Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee
says the Prime Minister will have a better chance of getting a new deal if he
proposes reforms for the EU as a whole. They urge a "constructive and
co-operative tone and approach".

Although Mr Cameron has called for EU-wide reforms, he has also launched a
government-wide review of the powers that could be returned from Brussels to
London. Eurosceptic Conservative MPs hope this process will produce a long
"shopping list" of demands for the negotiations ahead of the in/out referendum
he has promised for 2017.

The all-party committee warned: "We are clear that UK proposals for pan-EU
reforms are likely to find a more favourable reception than requests for further
'special treatment' for the UK. We are sceptical that other member states would
renegotiate existing EU law so as to allow the UK alone to reduce its degree of
integration, particularly where this could be seen as undermining the integrity
of the single market."

It urged Mr Cameron to reject calls by Eurosceptics to threaten to leave the EU
as a way of putting pressure on other member states to make concessions. The
report says: "Our sense is that other member states want the UK to remain an EU
member. However, we do not think that a UK government could successfully demand
'any price' from other member states for promising to try to keep the UK in the
union."

The MPs warned that Mr Cameron should not bank on a full-scale revision of the
EU's governing treaties, saying many member states wanted to avoid that in case
a new blueprint was rejected in the referendums some countries would have to
hold to ratify it. They rejected the option of Britain leaving the EU but
remaining part of the single market, saying that would leave it with "no
effective power" to shape the market's rules.

Yesterday the Prime Minister rounded on Eurosceptics who want Britain to
withdraw from the EU, accusing them of being in "denial" when they claimed that
the UK could go it alone and succeed in the global economy.

In a speech in Essex setting out his foreign policy, the Prime Minister appeared
to target Conservative Europhobes as well as Nigel Farage's UK Independence
Party as he attacked their "stop the world, I want to get off" approach. He
said: "There are those who say we should turn our backs on the world and on our
wider obligations; that we should cut ourselves off from influential
organisations in the belief that we can go it alone. I know how appealing some
of these arguments are but they amount to the same thing: denial."

He also rejected the arguments of those who want to cede more powers to
international bodies. He proposed a middle way, arguing that Britain would be on
the path to national renewal and would enjoy a big global footprint if it became
more competitive at home, engaged with the fastest growing countries in the
world and projected its values abroad.

In a speech welcomed by pro-European Tories, Mr Cameron hinted strongly that he
would campaign for Britain to remain in the EU in the 2017 referendum.

"This is about boldly pursuing our interests - not by withdrawing from the world
but engaging with it," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 8, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Just William's latest adventure could go horribly wrong;
A POLITICAL LIFE

BYLINE: CHRIS BRYANT

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 918 words


I've always been a bit perplexed by William Hague. He's witty, God knows. He can
have you in stitches with a string of jokes at your own expense. He's clever.
Witness his suitably priggish and surprisingly Whiggish books about Wilberforce
and Pitt.

But I always feel as if there are three different people vying for control of
the inner Hague. There's the very serious statesman, Sir William as it were, who
crafts a nuanced, balanced mandarin-esque position, modulates his voice, chooses
the dullest Hermès tie in the rack, and reads out his prepared text as if it
were the results of the Yorkshire county cricket junior league. But there's also
Billy Hague, who's determined, sharp of mind and of elbow, keen to cut a deal,
eager to please. And there's a Just William, too, naughty, up for a laugh, ready
for an adventure (even a 14-pint one).

You can see all this play itself out in Hague's attitudes on the Middle East.
Remember that botched expedition in Libya in the early days of the uprising,
when a number of British intelligence and military officers were caught near
Benghazi without any pretence of a legal standing? That was pure Just William
adventurism and we were lucky it didn't end in greater calamity.

My fear is that this rather cauterised and conflicted character is leading David
Cameron - and therefore all the rest of us - down a very dark alleyway in
relation to Syria. Hague has made two mistakes. From the moment he got the keys
to the Locarno suite in the FCO he has wanted to do business with Putin's
Russia. Forget the inconveniences of Litvinenko, Magnitsky and Khodorkovsky.
Ignore the fact that Obama's "reset" with Russia delivered diddly squat. Billy
was interested only in British businesses doing more deals in Russia.

But Putin doesn't respect weakness. And the end result has not been a more
co-operative Russia. Far from it. Russia has toughed it out and defended its
military and economic advantage in Syria.

So now Just William is back in the frame, campaigning for a military adventure
in Syria, persuading the EU to loosen its grip on the arms embargo so that he
might be able to arm the rebels. Surely we know how this Just William adventure
would end - with British troops facing British weapons in radicalist hands.

Four times on Monday and Wednesday, Cameron refused to promise a binding vote in
the Commons before any such move, probably because he knows he would lose. But
if Just William is to be given his head, we must be given a vote.

A press intrusion too far

I despair of the British press. Thursday's tabloid front pages screamed at us
about the desperately sad attempt on her own life by the 15-year-old Paris
Jackson. How any editor can ever think that devoting a front page to a suicide
attempt is a compassionate way of reporting mental health problems, I don't
know. Nor for that matter do I understand how an online editor can justify the
following, courtesy of the Mirror: "Follow the latest updates as the daughter of
Michael Jackson recovers in hospital following an apparent suicide attempt." The
latest updates? How often do we all have to scream that people (yes, even famous
people and even the children of celebrities) are not commodities?

He read it, we wept

What with the cash for questions sting operation, tales of sexual shenanigans
involving No 10 and the untrue allegations made by Richard Drax's nanny, the
atmosphere in the Commons has been febrile, as evidenced by the raucous debate
on the A&E crisis on Wednesday. We were infuriated by the tendency of
Conservative politicians to confuse correlation with causation. After all,
Marathons were renamed as Snickers in the UK in 1990, the same year as Mrs
Thatcher's fall, yet I don't think anyone has yet identified a causal link
between the two events. Which is why the Tory attempts to pass the problems in
A&E off on everyone under the sun are so tedious. So far they have fingered GPs,
women, the weather, the EU, the Welsh, having targets, not having targets, the
private sector, the public sector, the old GP contract and the new one. They
even alleged that it was all down to the influx of immigrants, even though your
A&E doctor is more likely to be a migrant than see one. Pathetically, Jeremy
Hunt, up just after Andy Burnham, started with an attack: "What we have heard
today will rank as one of the poorest speeches ever given by an opposition on
the NHS." The fact that he was reading out what his civil servants had written
for him long before he heard Andy completely undermined his argument. Oh, we
laughed.

And now a word from the other Billy

Later that day, I sped up to the Union Chapel in Islington for a Billy Bragg
gig. As always with Billy there was plenty of politics, including attacks on the
BNP and EDL and reminiscences about being in Calgary when he learnt of Mrs
Thatcher's death. Loads of hope, not fear - activism, not cynicism. He even sang
the Kirsty MacColl version of "A New England", which starts with the words "I
was 21 years when I wrote this song. I'm 22 now" despite sporting a middle-aged
beard, which, he told us, "covered a multitude of chins".

He told of touring in Seattle and asking how liberal Democrats there had managed
to get two referendums carried on the same day in 2012, in favour of same sex
marriage and legalising cannabis. Wasn't that a bit risky, trying two in one?
Apparently not, as one lady explained. "It says in Leviticus that when two men
lie together they shall be stoned. We took them at their word."

Twitter: @ChrisBryantMP

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Latvia's reward for austerity? Membership of the euro in 2014;
Baltic state will be 18th to adopt single currency, despite opposition within
the country

BYLINE: TONY PATERSON

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 648 words


Latvia will become the 18th country to join the troubled eurozone, in a move
seen by the Baltic state's centre-right government as a guarantee of stability
and a reward for the tough austerity-measures imposed to help the country
recover from a harsh financial crisis.

Announcing the move, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said yesterday that the
European Commission (EC) had given the go ahead for Latvia for adopt the euro
from early 2014. "Joining the eurozone will foster Latvia's economic growth for
sure," Mr Dombrovskis said.

The EC hopes that Latvia's switch to the euro will signal to investors that the
eurozone is growing, despite its debt crisis and the huge unpopularity of
austerity measures in countries like Greece, Italy and Spain. "Latvia's desire
to adopt the euro is a sign of confidence in our common currency and further
evidence that those who predicted the disintegration of the euro area were
wrong," Olli Rehn, the European Union's commissioner for economic and monetary
affairs, said in a statement yesterday. The EC concluded that Latvia had managed
to achieve sustained low inflation, low long-term interest rates and low public
debt by enforcing measures which foreshadowed those currently imposed in
crisis-hit eurozone countries.

However, opinion polls have shown that most Latvians are opposed to switching
currencies because they fear the move will drive-up prices. Anti-euro parties
won over half the vote in elections in Riga at the weekend.

The Baltic state, which has a population of just over two million, was one of
the hardest hit by the 2008-2009 financial crisis, which burst a property bubble
and forced the closure of one of the country's leading banks.

Latvia lost a fifth of its economic output and became one of the first countries
to be rescued by a bailout from the European Union and International Monetary
Fund. The conservative government subsequently imposed some of Europe's harshest
austerity measures and began a vigorous privatisation programme.

Unlike other EU member states, such as Greece, the government was able to impose
its austerity programme of draconian wage-cuts and tax increases almost
unopposed. Protests against the measures were minimal

Despite its financial recovery, economic activity in Latvia is still 12 per cent
below levels experienced before the financial crisis and unemployment stands at
12.4 per cent. Emigration is also on the rise.

Q&A: Why join a crisis-ridden currency?

Q Why would Latvia want to join the eurozone?

Latvia, like many eastern European countries, sees joining the EU as a guarantee
of economic and political stability. For Latvia's centre-right government,
joining the eurozone is the next logical step after that, and a signal to the
rest of the world that it is back in business after a devastating economic
crisis. Equally important is that for a majority of Latvians, EU and eurozone
membership signifies a final and welcome divorce from Russia. The country was
part of the Soviet Union during the Cold War.

Q What does the eurozone have to gain from it?

The eurozone gets another trading partner. Brussels hopes that Latvia's
membership will send an important signal to investors that the eurozone is
expanding rather than disintegrating despite its three-year debt crisis.
Pro-austerity policymakers, such as Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel, can also
point to Latvia and claim unpopular measures are worth it in the long run
because they help to overcome economic crises.

Q Do ordinary Latvians care?

Opinion polls show more than half of all Latvians are opposed to swapping the
lat for the euro because they fear it will bring higher prices. In elections
held in the Latvian capital, Riga, at the weekend, more than half of the votes
went to anti-euro parties. The government refused to hold a referendum on
eurozone membership, despite pressure to do so from opposition parties.

TONY PATERSON

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cameron's high time at expense of the Opposition;
DONALD MACINTYRE'S SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 385 words


David Cameron accused Labour yesterday of doing "so many U-turns they should be
having a grand prix". This was odd because U-turns - at least voluntary ones -
are neither common nor advisable for Formula One drivers in mid-competition.

He was on surer ground with another metaphor, declaring: "I know that I have
been the one on holiday in Ibiza ..." - always good to pre-empt jokes about your
tan-confirming, over-publicised week off - "... but the Opposition have been the
ones taking policy-altering substances".

Yet was it sensible to lambast Ed Miliband for "complete confusion and weakness"
over George Osborne's cut in child benefit for the well off, which Labour will
now not reverse? Maybe it was an extension of the drug joke - a subliminal
reference to the marijuana-fuelled Nineties teen movie Dazed and Confused? A
better approach might have been silkily to congratulate Miliband and Ed Balls
for adopting a Government policy they had previously attacked. "Welcome on
board," he might have said, to maximise the discomfort. But had we really waited
six weeks for this?

The Big Clash was over the A&E crisis, a statistics-crazed joust which Miliband
won on points, not least because Cameron's main answer was to blame the 2004
GPs' contract once again, allowing the doctors to opt out of evening and weekend
calls. It's true the contract was generous. But Miliband pointed out that A&E
waits had fallen "dramatically" between 2004 and 2010.

Cameron had his moments, as when he taunted Miliband with reports that half the
Shadow Cabinet - presumably including Balls - now favoured committing to a
referendum on EU membership. "Hands up, who wants a referendum?" he asked the
Labour frontbench. Balls and Miliband were deep in colloquy at this point,
apparently to show their immunity to such trivia. Or maybe Balls was whispering
to Miliband: "I'll put my hand up if you do."

The PM conspicuously evaded a good question from Labour's Ann McKechin on
whether Osborne's help-to-buy scheme would "guarantee the mortgages of foreign
citizens who buy property here". Enigmatically Cameron replied: "The Chancellor
will set out details of this in the announcements that he plans to make."

If they weren't such chums you'd think this meant: "George dreamt up this crazy
policy and he can jolly well get us out of it."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Hague: EU countries should get 'red cards' so they can veto legislation;
EUROPE

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 226 words


Britain and other European countries should be given a new "red card" system
enabling them to veto any unwelcome legislation from Brussels, the Foreign
Secretary said yesterday.

William Hague argued that the move would boost the democratic accountability of
the national parliaments in the EU's 27 member states in a speech to a German
foreign policy think-tank. It was the Government's first suggestion for clawing
power back from Brussels since David Cameron announced plans to hold a
referendum on EU membership by the end of 2017.

The proposal would be an extension of a "yellow card" system already in place
under which parliaments can demand that a proposed law is reconsidered by the
European Commission. Mr Hague said it was time "to make the EU more
democratically responsive". He added: "Trust in the institutions is at an
all-time low."

Describing the frustration many Britons feel about Europe, he said: "Too often,
the British people feel Europe is something that happens to them, not something
they have enough of a say over."

It was crucial, he said, to increase the role of individual members states in EU
decision-making.

"Ultimately it is national governments that are accountable to our electorates,"
Mr Hague said.

The Foreign Secretary is confident of securing backing for his proposals from
other northern European countries, including Germany.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 31, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Labour's largest donor: 'pygmy' Miliband needs to get on message;
Head of JML shopping channel also criticises party over opposition to EU
referendum

BYLINE: OLIVER WRIGHT Whitehall Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words


Labour's largest donor has warned the party that it still lacks a "credible"
economic message about how to get Britain's economy growing again.

In a series of frank remarks John Mills, the head of the television home
shopping retailer JML, said the party was "policy-light" and had still to
develop a "compelling message" to take into the election.

He also criticised the party's position on Europe, warning that Ed Miliband's
opposition to offering an EU referendum pledge could be a vote-loser in 2015.

Mr Mills's comments, to the news website LondonlovesBusiness.com, were seized
upon by the Tories. Earlier this month it emerged that Mr Mills had donated
£1.65m in shares this year to the Labour Party - more than twice the amount
given by the party's next biggest contributor, the Unite union.

In the interview, Mr Mills said it did not appear that Labour - along with the
Conservatives - had a "clear idea on how to get the economy growing again at a
reasonable speed and how to get the deficit down to a much more sustainable
proportion".

"The whole political spectrum is policy-light and this includes the Labour
Party," he said. "I'm not sure anybody has a compelling message."

He said that while the Chancellor, George Osborne, might not be "policy-light"
his plans were damaging the country.

"I think he's very determined to implement the policy that he is putting forward
[but] there are increasing doubts everywhere that this policy just isn't
working," he said.

He praised Mr Miliband for doing a "lot better than most people thought he
would, including me", saying that the Labour leader was a "very nice person and
a very capable speaker". "The problem is that anybody who is in opposition
always looks like a pygmy - this is just a fact of life," he said.

"Anybody who is in power looks much bigger and more powerful than people want."

Mr Mills, who is also the chairman of the Business for Britain group, which is
lobbying to renegotiate the UK's relationship with the EU, also warned that Mr
Miliband's opposition to offering an EU referendum pledge could be a vote-loser.

Although Mr Miliband has ruled out an EU referendum, Mr Mills insisted that his
disagreement did not jeopardise his financial support for the party. "I've been
a Labour supporter for the last 40 to 50 years and I've never been in a
situation when I've agreed with everything that [the Labour Party] is doing."

Speaking to The Independent, Mr Mills said he believed that both parties needed
to do more to get the economy growing and that there was a sense that "neither
know what to do".

However, he insisted that he was fully behind Mr Miliband and had not been
trying in any way to undermine the work he was doing.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Conservatives more divided than under Major, say voters

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 569 words


Most Britons believe the Conservatives are more divided today than they were
under John Major, according to a poll indicating that voters are deserting the
party after a series of internal rows.

A large majority of voters think David Cameron lacks the leadership skills to
deliver victory at the next election, the survey for The Independent shows.

The scathing verdict on the health of the Tory party revealed by the ComRes
survey follows a bruising fortnight for the Prime Minister in which he was hit
by backbench rebellions over Europe and same-sex marriage.

It also finds backing for the UK Independence Party has climbed to a record
high, with nearly a fifth of Tory supporters at the last election saying they
would switch their allegiance to Nigel Farage's party.

Labour support has fallen to 34 per cent, a drop of four points since last month
and its lowest share of the vote since Ed Miliband was elected leader. The
Conservatives are on 30 per cent (down two), Ukip on 17 per cent (up four) and
the Liberal Democrats trailing with 10 per cent (up one).

Most worryingly for Tory strategists, the notion that the party is at war with
itself appears to be growing. Fifty-six per cent regard the Conservatives as
more divided than during John Major's turbulent leadership in the 1990s, with
only 23 per cent disagreeing. Forty-nine per cent of Tory voters and 72 per cent
of Ukip supporters see the party as more split than it was in the 1990s.

The recent turmoil also seems to have tarnished the voters' view of the Prime
Minister's leadership ability, with 61 per cent doubting he possesses the
qualities required to win the election outright in 2015, compared with 23 per
cent who believe he has the necessary skills.

Nearly two-thirds of Tory supporters (63 per cent) still have confidence in his
leadership. But the opposite view is held by an overwhelming 86 per cent of Ukip
backers, many of whom are disillusioned former Conservative voters who Mr
Cameron needs to tempt back.

The unfavourable comparison with the Major years will be wounding for the
Conservative hierarchy as the party's splits over Europe contributed to a
crushing election defeat in 1997.

That experience prompted Mr Cameron in his first conference speech to warn his
party of the electoral dangers of "banging on about Europe".

More than six years later, the issue haunts the Prime Minister, with 114 of his
MPs defying him two weeks ago to back a Commons motion deploring the absence of
plans for a referendum on EU membership in the Queen's Speech. It was followed
by 130 Conservatives voting against Mr Cameron's proposal to legalise gay
marriage.

Ukip's support in ComRes polls for The Independent has almost quadrupled in the
past year and has risen since the local elections on 2 May.

Labour's low ratings will alarm senior party figures who believe the party
should be building a commanding lead over Mr Cameron, given the Tories' woes.
Its four-point drop in a month suggests it is also losing support to Ukip.
Conversely the Conservatives will draw some comfort from the fact their support
is not lower and the hope they can tempt many Ukip defectors back. The Liberal
Democrats are four points lower than after their conference last autumn.

ComRes interviewed 1,000 GB adults by telephone between 24 and 26 May. Data were
weighted to be demographically representative of all GB adults. Data were also
weighted by past vote recall.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 27, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Tory donor tells PM: change tack on EU or I'm off to Ukip;
Senior MP warns Cameron he could face challenge in a year

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 482 words


David Cameron came under fresh pressure yesterday as a senior Conservative MP
warned the Prime Minister that he could face a leadership challenge if he failed
to revive the party's fortunes within a year.

Wealthy Tory donors are also threatening to switch their financial backing to
the UK Independence Party (Ukip), which won more than 100 seats in this month's
local elections largely at the expense of Tory candidates.

The surging popularity of Ukip, which is now scoring more than 20 per cent
support in some opinion polls, has sent shock waves through Conservative ranks
and provoked fresh threats by right-wingers of an attempt to topple their
leader.

In an effort to quell backbench discontent, Mr Cameron has toughened his stance
on Europe and promised not to bring forward any more socially liberal measures
such as gay marriage.

David Ruffley, a former Tory whip, forecast that the European Parliament
elections in May 2014, when Ukip is expected to top the poll, could prove a
"flashpoint" for the Prime Minister.

"I don't think Ukip are going to win seats, but they could split the
Conservative vote if they are very strong and let Labour through in those
marginal seats. But I think David Cameron has got 12 months to show that his
strategy works."

The Bury St Edmunds MP said the party was united behind moves to promise a
referendum on European Union membership. "I think we should give him time to see
if that works, but next May could be a flashpoint," Mr Ruffley told Sky News.

He was speaking as Lord Kalms, who gave more than £700,000 to the Tories between
2001 and 2012, hinted that senior party figures could switch allegiance to Ukip
unless Mr Cameron adopts a more Eurosceptic stance.

"If Ukip has the right policies, that's where we'll go. I am very, very
disenchanted and won't tolerate being dragged down into Europe without some
fight," he said.

Lord Kalms lost the Tory whip in 2009 after suggesting he could "lend" his
support to Nigel Farage's party. He insisted he remained a Conservative, but
warned his loyalty was "wearing very, very thin".

One of the City's most prominent hedge-fund managers, Andy Brough, last week
joined Ukip, while another well-known fund manager, Crispin Odey, threw a party
to introduce Mr Farage to potential donors.

Mr Cameron has dismissed calls for his party to form an electoral pact with Ukip
to prevent the centre-right party splitting and handing victory to Labour at the
next election. But members of two Tory organisations - the Bow Group think-tank,
and Conservative Grassroots, which represents local parties - are planning a
Commons meeting with Ukip to discuss joint tactics.

Alan Sked, who helped to found Ukip 20 years ago, delivered a withering verdict
on the party. He said: "The party I founded has been captured by the radical
right and has gone all anti-intellectual." He also accused it of becoming
"anti-immigrant" and racist.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Tory MPs urge Cameron to hold EU referendum on same day as 2015 election

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 551 words


Conservative MPs are to defy David Cameron yet again by demanding that a
referendum on Europe is held on the same day as the next general election.

The Prime Minister declared yesterday that he would not be budged from his
promise to hold an in/out referendum by the end of 2017. But despite his
attempts to draw a line under recent Tory divisions on Europe and gay marriage,
his Eurosceptic MPs are already planning their next moves to force him to firm
up his pledge.

They have virtually written off the prospects of a Private Member's Bill
guaranteeing a 2017 referendum becoming law. Labour and the Liberal Democrats
are determined to block it and few backbench Bills make progress without
cross-party backing.

Although James Wharton, a Tory MP, will press ahead with his Bill, some
Eurosceptics are already describing it as a "dead duck." Instead, senior Tories
will urge Mr Cameron to bring forward the referendum to 7 May 2015, when the
next election will be held. They believe this would boost the Tories' prospects
at the election because they are likely to be the only major party offering a
vote on Europe. Legislation would be required to hold such a ballot, and this
appears highly difficult to achieve for the Tories due to Liberal Democrat
opposition inside the Coalition. However, the Eurosceptics want the Prime
Minister to bring in a government Bill and challenge Nick Clegg to vote it down
- arguing that an election-day referendum would unite the Conservative Party.

Mark Pritchard, a former secretary of the 1922 Committee of Tory MPs, favours
such a referendum. He said: "I still believe we can still win the next general
election under David Cameron as we continue to deliver on cutting the deficit,
reducing immigration, turning the corner on the economy, and delivering a Bill
for an EU referendum. However, any Bill should be both deliverable and credible.
There is much the Government is doing right - and far more that unites than
divides us as a party. We all need to put the last few difficult days behind us
and focus on taking the fight to Labour."

Allies of Mr Cameron are worried that changing course on the referendum date
would fuel Labour claims that he is being pushed around by his backbenchers. The
Prime Minister told the BBC: "It doesn't matter the pressure I come under from
outside the Conservative Party, or in Europe, or inside the Conservative Party,
this policy isn't going to change. The question isn't going to change. The
number of referenda isn't going to change. The date by which we hold this
referendum isn't going to change. The fact is it's the right policy for the
country.

"That is the boldest, clearest, most straightforward policy on Europe that any
party leader has had for 30 or 40 years. So it's that sort of leadership, that
sort of clarity that's required.

Mr Clegg told journalists that the Coalition would last until 2015 despite a
"difference of opinion on Europe" between its two parties. He said the Tories'
position on Europe was "shifting fast". He did not "understand why they were
tying themselves in knots trying to move the goalposts" when there was
legislation in place to ensure a referendum if there were any major EU treaty
changes. However, that law would trigger a referendum if more powers were
transferred from the UK to the EU.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Hide behind the EU and the electorate will flush you out;
Europe

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1040 words


The first law of referendums is that politicians want them only when they think
they will get the right answer. Thus Lord Mandelson, in an interview with Jeremy
Vine at the weekend, was frank enough to tell the BBC man that he was against
the holding of any "In or Out" referendum on Britain's membership of the EU,
because it would be "uncontrollable???. a lottery". For the ultimate political
control-freak - that's Mandelson - there can be no more damning criticism.

It is for the same reason that Michael Portillo is also against the holding of
an "in/out" referendum - even though he also declares that if there were one, he
would vote for the UK to leave the EU. The former Conservative cabinet minister
explains this apparent paradox with the argument that such a referendum would
produce a vote in favour of staying in the EU and that, as a result, the
Eurosceptic cause he supports would be dealt a fatal blow.

Or, outside the world of ex-cabinet ministers, Polly Toynbee urges Labour's
leader Ed Miliband not to yield to the idea of supporting such a vote because
"if Labour bends under pressure and agrees [in government] to a 2017 in/out
referendum, Britain will leave the EU". She regards this as an appalling
outcome: "Do we want to be Belarus?" Well, no, we don't want to be like a
country where elections have been criticised by independent observers for their
fraudulence; but the main principled objection to membership of the EU is
precisely that it causes laws to be enacted in this country which do not
originate from our elected parliament.

Last week's latest edict from a Brussels committee that olive oil should not be
presented in restaurants except in hermetically sealed containers (for reasons
of hygiene, apparently) is a trivial but telling example. You liked it being
served in an earthenware bowl? Sorry, that's now banned under the Single Market.
Rather pathetically, a spokesman for our own impotent Environment ministry said
that "the new rules will lead to unnecessary waste and place added burdens on
business" but "we will work with the catering industry to help them adapt to
these changes".

OK, the right to dip our restaurant bread in olive oil without having the lovely
liquid presented in aseptic sachets is hardly the stuff of great political
campaigns. On the other hand, it is precisely the sense that a distant polity is
interfering quite unnecessarily in the minutiae of domestic life that makes
millions of people - who cannot all be dismissed as merely "anti-European" - so
receptive to the arguments of Ukip's eloquent leader, Nigel Farage.

Those who think that the British Department of the Environment has always been
too laissez-faire have a quite different view. Last week, the head of policy at
Friends of the Earth UK, Craig Bennett, warned that there were "huge risks" if
Britain withdrew from the EU, because the "EU's approach to policy-making" -
good - "is fundamentally different" to our own - bad. He argued that "the
painful truth is that the UK has a poor record on supporting progressive
environmental policy and continues to do so".

Now, it may be that the British are less enlightened than what Bennett describes
as "our more progressive continental cousins". But the point is that if we have
a much smaller Green movement than Germany's, that is among other things an
expression of differing national characters, priorities and, yes, prejudices,
reflected at the ballot box. Bennett is clearly of the view that it is a good
thing that the unenlightened British have lost political autonomy over such
environmental matters: that, for our own good, our elected representatives need
to be made subservient to a wider European "progressive" ethos of health and
hygiene (even as applied to the way olive oil is served).

What has made the whole debate over Britain and Europe so unhealthy is exactly
this mindset: that politicians and lobbyists have supported such a loss of
democratic autonomy precisely when they themselves have struggled to get the
sort of answer they want from the British voter.

Thus, when the Conservatives were in opposition in the mid-1970s (and Lord
Hailsham warned bleakly of an "elective dictatorship") they campaigned
vigorously for Britain's membership of what was then known as the Common Market:
Margaret Thatcher, the Conservative leader at the time, held photo opportunities
wearing a pullover covered with the flags of all the other member states - not a
fashion she ever embraced again.

Yet when Thatcher seemed politically unchallengeable via the ballot box, after
her party's third and most crushing victory in the 1987 General Election, Labour
suddenly switched to a policy of full and unconditional support for the European
Union. To be more precise, this followed a dramatic address in 1988 to the Trade
Union Congress by the then President of the European Commission, Jacques Delors.
Delors told them that Brussels would bring about laws to protect workers'
rights, which at the time seemed likely never to be enacted by the Parliament in
Westminster.

The point here is not whether Delors or Thatcher was right about the interests
of the British people, but who had the mandate. It wasn't Jacques Delors. This
was the point I tried to put to Gordon Brown when Labour were in opposition to
the Conservative Government of John Major; Major had gained Britain exemption
from the Social Chapter of the Maastricht Treaty, but Labour had pledged to make
Britain subject to its provisions. My question was why Labour didn't just
promise to bring in employment protection for workers in Britain via its
majority in an elected Parliament once it had won the next general election,
regardless of what might be decided in the European Council. I don't recall
getting much of answer.

Fast-forward to the present, and we can see the long-term consequence of the way
both the established parties of Left and Right at different times have seen the
EU as a way of producing legislative outcomes not available via a popular
mandate - a public which to a dangerous degree sees its own political
institutions as unrepresentative and even pointless. Result: the Farage effect -
and pure panic in certain quarters at the prospect of a plebiscite.

d.lawson@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

British business: We need to stay in the EU;
Richard Branson and Martin Sorrell among signatories to a letter to 'The
Independent' that takes aim at Eurosceptics Leaving the EU would be deeply
damaging, business chiefs warn EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: OLIVER WRIGHT Whitehall Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words


Some of Britain's most successful and eminent business leaders today accuse
Eurosceptic MPs of putting "politics before economics" and abandoning the
national interest in their calls for Britain to leave the European Union.

In a letter to The Independent, the group issues a trenchant riposte to
politicians who have argued that Britain's economic interest would be better
served outside the EU. They also call for David Cameron to "strengthen and
deepen" the European single market to boost Britain's economy by £110bn. The
letter, which is signed by senior figures including the current and next
presidents of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) as well as the
chairmen of BT, Deloitte, Lloyds and Centrica, is the first co-ordinated
response from the business community to increasing anti-European political
rhetoric.

It reflects growing concern in the City that anti-European feeling is not being
effectively countered by mainstream political leaders in the wake of last
month's local council elections.

Two cabinet ministers have already publicly stated that they would vote to leave
the EU if a referendum were held today, while privately some senior Tories
believe Mr Cameron will never be able to negotiate a new deal for Britain's
membership that Eurosceptics could willingly sign up to.

But in their letter the business leaders write that on a purely economic basis,
exiting the EU would be deeply damaging to Britain. "The economic case to stay
in the EU is overwhelming," they say. "To Britain, membership is estimated to be
worth between £31bn and £92bn per year in income gains, or between £1,200 to
£3,500 for every household.

"What we should now be doing is fighting hard to deliver a more competitive
Europe, to combat the criticism of those that champion our departure. We should
push to strengthen and deepen the Single Market to include digital, energy,
transport and telecoms, which could boost Britain's GDP by £110bn."

Addressing concerns that European banking legislation is adversely affecting the
City of London, the 19 business leaders say that the right answer is to fight
for Britain's interests inside the EU - rather than attempting to go it alone.
"The City of London is Europe's global financial centre," they say. "Some of the
EU's ideas such as a cap on bankers' bonuses put this standing at risk. So the
Government needs to work hard to protect it.

"But there is also a huge opportunity to promote London's capital markets to
help solve the problems of the EU banking system. We should promote the cause of
EU membership as well as defend our position."

They conclude: "The benefits of membership overwhelmingly outweigh the costs,
and to suggest otherwise is putting politics before economics."

Some businessmen privately express concerns that were Britain to leave and place
restrictions on foreign workers, other European countries would retaliate and
make it harder for Britons to work in the EU.

As well as UK nationals, this may also affect bankers from around the world who
are drawn to London as Europe's financial hub. Should bankers working in London
need separate work permits to operate elsewhere in Europe, they argue, this
could force many large multinationals to relocate their headquarters. "I don't
think a lot of people have really thought through the consequences of what
leaving might mean," said one.

Meanwhile, the former Foreign Secretary, Lord Howe, said Mr Cameron had "opened
a Pandora's box" by promising to re-negotiate Britain's membership of the EU and
put it to a vote in 2017.

Lord Howe said the Tory leadership was "running scared" of its backbenchers and
had allowed Euroscepticism to "infect the very soul of the party".

"Sadly, by making it clear in January that he opposes the current terms of UK
membership of the EU, the Prime Minister has opened a Pandora's box politically
and seems to be losing control of his party in the process," he wrote in The
Observer.

But the Health Secretary, Jeremy Hunt, insisted that the Tory party was
"absolutely united" on the issue of Europe and Lord Howe's views did not
"represent the reality" of the situation. "If you look at the substance of the
issue, the Conservative Party is absolutely united," he told the BBC. "Of course
we have a debate. Patriotism runs deep in the veins of all Conservatives and
when you have an issue of sovereignty it's something we debate fiercely."

But the former Labour cabinet minister Lord Mandelson attacked Ukip, which he
described as the "UK isolation party", and the "provisional wing" of the
Conservatives, for forcing Mr Cameron into making his referendum promise. "They
are saying do what we want, give us what we are demanding or we are going to
burn your home down," he said. "In my view the Prime Minister has got to say
enough is enough, you guys have got to clear off, take your tanks off my lawn, I
am going to lead this party and govern this country in the way that serves its
true economic national interest."

MAKING THE CASE FOR EUROPE

KEY SIGNATORIES

Dame Helen Alexander

One of the few women at the top of British business, Dame Helen spent 23 years
with the Economist Group, helping to turn its flagship magazine into a global
success selling more than 1.3 million copies a week. She has sat on the board of
Rolls-Royce as well as becoming the first female president of the CBI. She is
chairwoman of the media and events company UBM.

Sir Roger Carr

The chairman of energy giant Centrica, which has been criticised for hikes in
gas bills, Sir Roger lambasted leaders of some British companies last year for
greed and forgetting fairness. He was chairman of Cadbury when it was taken over
by American giant Kraft and is reportedly in line to become the next chairman of
the defence company BAE Systems.

Sir Nigel Sheinwald

The non-executive director of oil giant Shell is a former diplomat who served as
ambassador to Washington. He was credited with negotiating the release of 15
Royal Navy personnel held captive by the Iranians in 2007. He also helped broker
Tony Blair's controversial "Deal in the Desert" with the former Libyan dictator
Muammar Gaddafi.

Sir Andrew Cahn

A career civil servant and Whitehall mandarin until 2011, Sir Andrew left his
role as head of UK Trade and Investment to join Japanese bank Nomura as well as
acting as an adviser to controversial Chinese electronics company Huawei. He hit
the headlines in 2011 when a leaked email suggested he was seeking ways for the
Foreign Office to overcome an underspend by spending more.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Another week, another bout of Tory in-fighting;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 608 words


David Cameron was in a tricky enough spot last week, forced to pretend it was,
if not desirable, then at least acceptable that more than 100 obstreperous
backbenchers voted their "regret" at his Government's legislative programme.
Between the high-profile grandees (Lord Lawson, Michael Portillo) and the
existing cabinet ministers (Michael Gove, Philip Hammond) all voicing their
scepticism on Europe - and implicitly criticising the Prime Minister's
renegotiation strategy in the process - the ghosts of John Major's strife-riven
leadership were abroad once more.

If Mr Cameron hoped that the Queen's Speech vote would be a cathartic letting
off of steam, he has once again misjudged his party's mood. Never mind that, as
with Mr Major's "bastards", the Prime Minister might justifiably view the
Eurosceptics tearing his party to unelectable shreds as "swivel-eyed loons".
That an as-yet unidentified figure closely allied with Mr Cameron is reported
describing activists in such terms only emphasises the yawning gulf between the
leadership and the rank and file.

There is, of course, always tension between the politicians who must win
elections and the grass-roots party for whom compromise is a betrayal. But with
the Tory chairman forced to deny the "loons" quote and Mr Cameron's own attitude
now under intense scrutiny, the strains start to look more like civil war.
Indeed, even as the Bow Group, a high-Tory think-tank, talks of "crisis", the
gap between the modernising Mr Cameron and the unbending traditionalism of both
party activists and, crucially, swathes of MPs appears increasingly
unbridgeable.

Nor will the coming week prove any easier, offering, as it does, another chance
for rebels to flex their parliamentary muscles - this time over gay marriage -
and for leaders-in-waiting to nail their colours to the mast. There has been no
shortage of posturing already. Mr Gove's hints on Europe are no surprise; for
all his wide-eyed denials, the Education Secretary was always a contender. But
it was the Defence Secretary who made last week's most audacious bid for Tory
hearts.

Not only was Mr Hammond explicitly anti-EU. Just days later he berated the Prime
Minister for wasting time on gay marriage, earning a sharp put-down from a
rattled No 10. And all this against the backdrop of spending review negotiations
in which the Defence Secretary is very publicly setting himself up as the
defender of military spending .

With the marriage Bill back in the Commons today, Mr Cameron faces yet more
rebellion and dissent. Euroscepticism may have begun what Geoffrey Howe
described yesterday as the Tory party's "long, nervous breakdown", but the row
over gay marriage is emblematic of how deep the discord now runs. Barely any of
Mr Cameron's new-look, hoodie-hugging Conservatism survived the twin pressures
of recession and realpolitik. Same-sex marriage remains, in his view, an
electorally vital nod to modernity and the middle ground. But even that is one
nod too many for his party.

So far, Mr Cameron's attempts at conciliation have repeatedly failed. The gay
marriage plans are set to be watered down. And each concession on Europe - from
the referendum pledge, to the free vote on the Queen's Speech, to the Private
Member's Bill that swiftly followed - has only upped the ante. Meanwhile, back
in the real world, the majority of voters support same-sex marriage and, as the
open letter from business leaders in this newspaper today makes clear, the
referendum question is a distraction from the real issues for Britain in Europe.
Not only is the Conservative Party splitting itself in two - it is leaving the
electorate far behind.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Friends abroad, but blood-scenting rivals at home;
INSIDE WESTMINSTER

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 803 words


It has been a topsy-turvy week. David Cameron headed off to the United States
for a trip that should have been a spin-doctor's dream. It turned into a
nightmare. He was dogged by events back home as Eurosceptic Conservative MPs
caused mayhem in his absence.

Their craving for a referendum on Europe created the crazy spectacle of no
Conservative MPs voting for the Queen's Speech in its entirety, even though it
is the legislative programme of a Tory-dominated government. Tory ministers
abstained on an amendment regretting the absence of an EU Referendum Bill in the
Speech, while 114 Tory MPs defied Mr Cameron by backing the amendment.

Only the Liberal Democrats fully supported the Coalition's programme. "This is
the first time I have voted for a prime minister to defend him from his own
party," said Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Lib Dem leader. A Queen's Speech
is an opportunity for a government to secure positive media coverage. The Tories
have managed to turn this one into another omnishambles.

Mr Cameron and his aides repeatedly insisted they were "very relaxed" because
this chaos highlighted his pledge to hold an in/out referendum on Europe by
2017. The Prime Minister was anything but "very relaxed". Every spare second of
his team on the three-day visit to the US was spent on the phone to Downing
Street dealing with the chaos back home. He even had to send one of his spin
doctors back to London to help fight the media firestorm.

Normally, a visit to the White House is a chance to look the statesman on the
world stage. But Mr Cameron was in the bizarre position of pushing a historic EU
-US trade deal when his hosts knew his own party was obsessing about leaving the
EU. On the day he left for Washington, two Cabinet ministers, Michael Gove and
Philip Hammond, told interviewers they would vote to withdraw if a referendum
were held now. They didn't need to answer the question. The official line was:
there isn't going to be a referendum until 2017. Their answer showed they have
an eye on the Tory leadership race that would follow an election defeat in 2015.
It is now respectable for Tories to talk about quitting the EU. The rules of the
game changed two weeks ago when Lord Lawson, the former Chancellor, advocated
withdrawal and warned that Mr Cameron was unlikely to secure the "new
settlement" he seeks with the EU.

So Mr Cameron had to ask the US President to endorse his strategy. Mr Obama
obliged, saying: "You probably want to see if you can fix what's broken in a
very important relationship before you break it off." That would have produced
positive headlines after days of being dominated by Tory splits over Europe. But
Mr Cameron managed to eclipse his own good news by rushing out a draft EU
Referendum Bill in an attempt to head off the Queen's Speech revolt. That was
seen, rightly, as a panic measure. To make matters worse, it didn't work, since
half of Tory backbenchers still rebelled over the Speech.

Mr Cameron should not have been surprised. Eurosceptics are never satisfied -
whether Tory MPs or in the UK Independence Party. They always come back for
more. The Prime Minister's big speech on Europe in January, promising a 2017
referendum, was designed to kick the issue beyond the 2015 election. It failed.
"We didn't shoot Ukip's fox; we fed it," one insider admitted yesterday. Nor was
the appetite of Tory MPs satiated. Some demanded two referendums - one before
the general election and one afterwards. And 2017 was too late for others, even
though the great renegotiation of Britain's membership terms has not even
started, and there is no knowing when it will finish.

There was a logic to Mr Cameron's strategy, as the Tories could portray
themselves as the only major party promising an in/out referendum on Europe at
the next election. But it could work only if Tory Eurosceptics trusted him to
deliver it, and shut up. They don't, and they haven't. They suspect he rather
likes being in coalition and fear their party cannot win a majority in 2015. So
they have been trying to nail him to his referendum pledge by demanding
legislation before the election to guarantee one afterwards. Their constant
pressure makes him look weak. To keep them at bay, he has had to throw his
weight behind a Private Member's Bill promising a 2017 referendum, ensuring his
MPs keep banging on about Europe for the next 12 months. Labour and the Lib Dems
will point to that while they focus on "jobs and growth".

The Conservatives have a new anti-Labour attack line: "Same Old Labour." We can
expect to hear it a lot. It is clever, signalling that Ed Miliband has not
changed his party and has lurched to the left. It was also meant to be an
antidote to Labour's "Same Old Tories" slogan. After their week of madness, it
is the Tories who deserve the "same old, same old" label.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

What does the A&E crisis tell us about the state of the NHS? Is Britain heading
out of the EU?;
The big questions

BYLINE: Answered this week by SHIRLEY WILLIAMS

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 771 words


How much of a threat to David Cameron's position is the Tory rebellion over
Europe?

The Tory rebellion on Europe demands a much earlier resolution of the in/out
question than is implied in David Cameron's referendum date of 2017. I don't
think the rebels will accept a four- or five-year delay. The whole issue will be
caught up in the general election fixed for 2015, and it is an issue on which
the Tories and their junior coalition partner, the Liberal Democrats, have
strongly opposing views and cannot campaign together. The result of the general
election will determine the UK's relationship to the European Union. In the
course of the argument, each party will have internal differences, but those
differences will be much more serious for the Conservatives than for the other
parties.

Can you envisage the UK leaving the EU in the foreseeable future?

Not before the general election. There would be no majority in Parliament for
that and the Coalition would split on it. The Prime Minister himself is clearly
not in favour.

There is also a left-wing case being put forward for our independence from
Europe. Does that make sense to you?

None at all. On matters dear to the sensible left, like climate change, banking
regulation, human rights (not least stamping out child and female trafficking),
the EU at the international level is the best ally they have.

The outgoing Governor of the Bank of England says the end of the economic slump
is in sight. Do you share his optimism?

I was encouraged by what he said but not persuaded. We still have no real
strategy for job creation, for the revival of industry (new and old) north of
the Trent to balance the magnetic attraction of London - yes to a mansion tax -
nor for social housing and renewal of our old housing stock, which are the most
promising areas for jobs for young people. The Coalition has done well on
apprenticeships, and badly on the kind of immigration restrictions that bar
thousands of overseas students from coming here to benefit from our outstanding
higher education.

How does one explain the police and social services' failings in the Oxford sex
abuse case?

First, the police and social services can be mutually suspicious and do not work
well together. Second, the UK authorities have been traditionally poor at
listening to young people and taking what they have to say seriously, all the
more so if they are girls or come from disadvantaged backgrounds. Police
training must address these weaknesses.

What does the crisis in A&E tell us about the state of the NHS?

Essentially that the argument for shifting NHS care and treatment away from
hospitals to GPs and community provision has not succeeded. To deal with an
ageing population and one with increasing numbers of people with chronic
conditions, not least diabetes and the after-effects of stroke, the shift is
essential. But we are closing down A&E units before the alternatives are in
place. In particular, we must address 24/7 GP access, conceded to the private
sector by the Labour government in 2006/7. GPs work very hard, so the only way
to do this is to make out-of-hours service a responsibility of the new clinical
commissioning groups, and to ensure that out-of-hours doctors are accountable to
them.

And the safeguarding of the future of the NHS requires what?

It requires a devolution of some responsibilities to the professions ancillary
to medicine. For example, pharmacists could oversee drug regimes for elderly and
chronically ill people being available 24/7. This would remove heavy
time-consuming demands from GPs. The voluntary movement could be encouraged to
run more hospices which provide a much happier situation for frail elderly
people than geriatric wards do. What matters is to persuade the public how
essential such devolution of responsibility is.

How significant for women's future health is Angelina Jolie's announcement of
her preventive double mastectomy?

Any woman considering copying Angelina Jolie should make sure that she has a
genetic tendency towards breast cancer. Unnecessary mastectomies would be as
disastrous as breast implants have been.

Should the West intervene militarily in Syria?

Syria is becoming a scar on the face of the world. No boots on the ground but we
should seriously consider taking control of the air in the way that France and
Britain did in Libya. People matter more than petrol, and this is one area where
we could, I believe, take a strong position.

Baroness Williams of Crosby is a former Labour cabinet minister who co-founded
the Social Democratic Party in 1981. She is also a former leader of the Liberal
Democrats in the House of Lords

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Cameron's position has the support of most voters - but then so did Major's;
Europe

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 952 words


Of all the things that were said in the House of Commons this week, one
unexpectedly stood out. Ed Balls, the shadow Chancellor, said: "I want us to
stay in the European Union; I'm absolutely clear about that." It has come to
something that this, the conventional view of British politics for the past 40
years, should now be notable. It is notable because it no longer appears to be
the view of the British people. Ever since the general election, which coincided
with the start of the euro crisis, a majority have said they would vote to leave
the EU if there were a referendum.

That is why we should ask whether the story that interests journalists, "Tory
disarray over Europe", is as important as the one that interests the voters:
"Tories don't like the EU".

The main story of this week, for most journalists, has been the Conservative
decision to stage, as if for educational purposes, a case study in disunity. In
Wednesday's vote, 55 per cent of Tory backbenchers voted the way David Cameron
didn't want them to. His people told journalists how relaxed he was about the
vote, while William Hague, "my deputy in all but name", pleaded with Tory MPs
not to vote for the amendment regretting the absence of an EU referendum Bill.
The blogger Hopi Sen called it the "moon on a stick" amendment, and most Tory
MPs responded by saying: "We want a moon on a stick. Now."

But it is always useful to imagine ourselves in a focus group in Harlow. They
will not be interested in the precedents for a partial free vote on the Queen's
Speech. They may have formed a general impression that the politicians are
squabbling again and that Cameron is not a particularly strong Prime Minister.
The inescapable comparison with John Major - even if Cameron doesn't tuck his
shirt into his underpants - is about as wounding as an insult can be. But ask
them about the EU and they will have opinions - opinions that will not tend to
be perfectly aligned with the Labour position as spelt out with such admirable
clarity by Ed Balls.

At this point, it is customary to point out - I have done it myself - that the
Tory party is convulsed about a subject which ranks about 10th in the list of
"most important issues facing Britain today" when opinion pollsters ask one of
their open-ended questions. But the more I think about it, the more I think this
is a misreading of public opinion. Immigration is the second most important
issue (after the economy) in the most recent Ipsos MORI poll, and a lot of
immigration is the result of the right of freedom of movement for workers in the
EU.

That is why I would say that a fuss about Europe is not just bad news for
Cameron. For all the amusement in the Westminster fun house about symbolic votes
on a symbolic amendment and a symbolic Private Member's Bill, in focus-group
terms Cameron doesn't like the EU much and wants to do something about it. It is
not merely that Ed Miliband and Ed Balls are opposed to a referendum, which
allows the Tories to say that Labour refuses to let the people have a say, but
that Cameron's policy is closer to public opinion.

The difficulty for the Prime Minister is that Europe is not a yes-no question
(although if there is a referendum it will be). If this week were just about
being pro-EU or anti-, then the Tories would be on the right side of public
opinion. But Cameron agrees with Balls. He has used those same words: "I want us
to stay in the European Union." He wants to renegotiate the terms of our
membership and then to hold a referendum - in order to stay in.

Yet there are increasing numbers in his own party who think that renegotiation
would be cosmetic, as it was for Harold Wilson and James Callaghan in 1974-75.
They don't think other members of the EU would agree to the sort of changes they
want and so they are preparing to pull out. Or they just want to get out anyway.
On the other side, the difference between Cameron and Labour is that the Prime
Minister is prepared to use the threat of withdrawal as a bargaining lever. He
doesn't want to say it because it is not diplomatic, and Michael Gove may have
gone "10 per cent too far" - as one of Cameron's people said to me - in his TV
interview at the weekend, saying that he would vote to leave the EU if a
referendum were held now. But even George Osborne, the Chancellor, has said
there is no point in a negotiation unless you are prepared to walk away. Whereas
the Labour line is reform-by-bear-hug. Ed Balls said this week: "We will not get
the reform that we need by walking out of the room in a flounce."

As ever, politics is rich in paradox. The Tory irreconcilables think that they
have public opinion on their side because, if asked the Gove question about a
referendum now, most people say they would vote to leave. But YouGov asks
another question: "Imagine the British Government under David Cameron
renegotiated our relationship with Europe and said that Britain's interests were
now protected, and David Cameron recommended that Britain remain a member of the
European Union on the new terms. How would you then vote in a referendum on the
issue?" Put like that, people say they would vote by about 60 to 40 per cent to
stay in.

There are, then, three positions: stay in; renegotiate and stay in; or leave. Of
these, the middle one, Cameron's position, is the one that commands the most
popular support. But the furies of the Better Off Outers in his own party
threaten to frustrate him. The parallel with John Major's government is
complete: Major sought to keep the option of the euro open but the disunity
caused by the antis helped to clear the way for the election of a Labour
government committed in principle to joining the single currency.

Twitter: @JohnRentoul

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Curious career of Cameron's EU referendum Bill stooge;
MP who accused party of talking too much about Europe is leading backbench Bill
to ensure in/out vote held by 2017

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1052 words


A Tory MP who told his party to stop banging on about Europe is to bring in a
backbench Bill to guarantee an in/out referendum on the EU by 2017.

James Wharton adopted the European Union (Referendum) Bill drafted by the
Conservatives after winning the right to bring in a Private Member's Bill in the
annual ballot among MPs yesterday. It marked a swift U-turn by the Eurosceptic
MP, who admits he would vote to leave the EU if a referendum were held now.

On Wednesday, he told the BBC that while Europe was "important", if the
Conservatives talked about it "to the exclusion of other things" - such as the
cost of living, immigration, education and tax - there was a risk the party
would be seen as not speaking about "the things people care about". Asked about
those remarks yesterday, he argued: "The reality is we need to be seen to be
talking about things that matter to people in places like Stockton South, which
I represent, which is the cost of living, it's jobs. Things we need to get right
to improve people's lives. This is the best possible way of getting to that
position because once we've had this debate [on Europe] and once Parliament's
had its say, we will know what Parliament's position is."

Mr Wharton, who at 29 is the youngest Tory MP, was among the 114 Eurosceptics
who defied David Cameron on Wednesday by voting for an amendment to the Queen's
Speech regretting that it did not include a Referendum Bill. But he is clearly
trying to catch the eye of senior Tories. He recently backed a controversial
plan for a free school in his Stockton South, where Mr Wharton has wafer-thin
majority.

The MPs is only otherwise notable for his frequent trips to Sri Lanka.

He said yesterday that he had pledges of support from some Labour MPs but
admitted that it would be "much more difficult" for his measure to become law
without the formal backing of Labour and the Liberal Democrats.

Mr Cameron hopes the Bill will unite his fractious party after a week of
damaging headlines about their divisions over Europe. He announced that Tory MPs
would be on a three-line whip to support Mr Wharton's measure, which is due to
be debated on 5 July.

But Labour and the Liberal Democrats, who oppose announcing a referendum now,
made clear they would frustrate the Bill's passage at every opportunity, making
it very difficult for it to reach the statute book. A Liberal Democrat source
said: "The Tories can bang on and on about Europe if they wish, but we will
focus on jobs and growth." A Labour source added: "There are several ways to
kill a Private Member's Bill."

The looming battle over the Bill raised tensions inside the Coalition. Vince
Cable, the Liberal Democrat Business Secretary, warned that the "endless,
self-indulgent civil war" in the Conservative Party over Europe was creating
instability and doing "serious damage" to the country.

"There are large numbers of potential investors in the UK, who would bring
employment here, who have been warned off because of the uncertainty this is
creating," he said.

Nick Clegg warned that leaving the EU would be a "calamitous mistake" for the UK
and predicted the Prime Minister's plan to win a "new settlement" would result
in only "symbolic" changes. He said the Tories' position was "as clear as mud"
because they had not set out which aspects of the relationship with Brussels
they wanted to change.

Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, attacked Labour for opposing the Bill. He said:
"David Cameron wants the British people to decide our European future with an
in/out referendum. And we want to turn this commitment into law. Ed Miliband is
making clear he'll never give the public a say because he doesn't trust the
British people. But we know there are Labour MPs who want that referendum and we
want them to back our Bill."

Mr Miliband is under pressure to soften his opposition to a referendum. Keith
Vaz, Labour chairman of the Home Affairs Select Committee, claimed his party
leadership is shifting. He told the London Evening Standard: "They have already
changed their position from being a situation of 'never' and never being on the
agenda to a position of 'not now' and 'we will look at it in the future'. That's
a big change already."

Meanwhile, in France, a beleaguered President François Hollande went on the
offensive yesterday calling for an "economic government" for the eurozone and
"political union" in Europe within two years.

Stung by accusations that he has been too passive in his first year in office,
Mr Hollande rolled the dice on the future of the EU - to the potential
embarrassment of Mr Cameron and the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel. In a
two-hour press conference at the Elysée Palace, Mr Hollande announced a string
of new initiatives including a four-point plan for rapid progress towards a more
federal Europe.

"I can understand countries don't want to join the euro but they cannot impede
the consolidation and strengthening of the eurozone," he said. "If they want to
go further and refuse powers, then the risk is of a splintered Europe ??? If
Europe does not advance it will fall or even be wiped out from the world map."

Q&A: What's likely to happen?

Q Why are they supporting a Private Member's Bill?

Nick Clegg did not allow David Cameron to include an official Bill in the
Coalition's programme set out in the Queen's Speech last week, so they are
pragmatically backing this one instead.

Q Is it likely to become law?

No. Although Conservative MPs will be under a three-line whip to support it,
most Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs will oppose it. The Bill will get some
parliamentary time, but less than if it were a government measure. Normally,
such backbench measures are on less controversial issues and need all-party
support to reach the statute book. It could also face opposition in the House of
Lords.

Q If it is passed, would the next government be bound by it?

No. One administration cannot bind the next, and a Referendum Act could be
overturned. But it would be politically risky to deny the public a promised
vote.

Q Will Labour and the Liberal Democrats offer a referendum?

Nick Clegg's party supports a referendum if the UK-EU relationship changes
fundamentally. Labour has not gone that far but some of its MPs fear the party
will be isolated and are pressing for a referendum pledge in its 2015 manifesto.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Young man in a hurry: Friend of Sri Lanka hopes to catch the eye of Tory
leaders;
PROFILE

BYLINE: IAN BURRELL and ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 334 words


Whichever way you look at it, James Wharton will go far. One of Westminster's
fastest-rising MPs, he is also one of its more well-travelled.

A Conservative since his teens, he became chairman of his local party
association at the age of 18 and entered the House of Commons when he was just
26.

On the face of it, he has a long political career in front of him. And yet, with
a majority of just 332 votes in the normally solid Labour seat of Stockton South
in the North-east, he is smart enough to know that he might not get the chance
to represent his constituents for a second consecutive term.

This might explain why he appears in a hurry. By pushing himself into the
spotlight, he has raised his profile and increased his chances of returning to
Westminster in a safe Tory seat at some point in the future.

Wharton's distaste for Europe is matched by his affection for Sri Lanka, to
which he has been a frequent visitor.

The Independent revealed in November that Wharton had made four visits to Sri
Lanka in nine months, despite having no significant Sri Lankan community in his
constituency. Two of the trips were at the expense of the Sri Lankan government
and he was presented with a ceremonial plate by Sri Lanka Defence Secretary
Gotabhaya Rajapaksa.Wharton has repeatedly attended Sri Lankan official events
in London, twice meeting the President Mahinda Rajapaksa.

He denied being a cheerleader for its government. "I don't think it's
disproportionate or unreasonable, no," he said. Given the vulnerability of his
seat, it is unsurprising that Wharton should be looking to develop an expertise
in foreign affairs.

His election victory in 2010 was partly a result of the failure of his Labour
opponent Dari Taylor to save jobs at the Redcar steelworks. But Wharton's
success will have delighted senior members of the party.

He is a rare Tory MP in the North with a compulsion for visiting Sri Lanka. But,
as his adoption of the EU Referendum Bill showed, he's most anxious to catch the
eye of party leaders.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Tory rebellion on EU deals Cameron a hammer blow

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 269 words


David Cameron's frantic attempts to limit a rebellion over Europe failed last
night when more than 100 of his MPs defied him in a Commons vote.

A bigger than expected revolt by 114 Tory Eurosceptics increased the pressure on
the Prime Minister to bring in a law before the election guaranteeing that he
will hold an in/out referendum on the EU after 2015. Last night's vote was a big
blow to Mr Cameron's authority.

Party whips put strong pressure on Tory MPs not to back a rebel amendment to the
Queen's Speech regretting the absence of an EU Referendum Bill, which had been
blocked by the Liberal Democrats. The Prime Minister, whose three-day visit to
the United States was overshadowed by the damaging Tory split, rushed out a
draft Bill that could be taken up by a Tory backbencher but his move failed to
head off the revolt. The rebels' act of open defiance called Downing Street's
tactics into question.

Eurosceptics said after the vote that they had the wind in their sails. John
Baron, who proposed the amendment, said Mr Cameron should have backed his move
rather than ordering ministers to abstain. He said it would have then been
passed, giving the Prime Minister a mandate to overrule the Liberal Democrats
and bring in a government Bill, which would have a "far better chance" of
becoming law than a backbench measure.

A Tory MP is expected to introduce the draft Bill as a Private Member's Bill
after a ballot today decides which MPs win the right to bring in such a measure.

The revolt was the biggest over Europe since the 2010 election, dwarfing the one
by 81 Tories who called for a referendum in 2011.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cameron's bloody nose brings an EU referendum a step closer;
PM's tactics and leadership will be questioned after 114 Tory MPs vote for
Queen's Speech amendment. By Andrew Grice and Nigel Morris

BYLINE: Andrew Grice and Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 837 words


David Cameron's authority suffered a huge blow last night when more than 100
Conservative MPs defied him by voting for a referendum on the European Union.

Britain moved closer to an in/out referendum as Nick Clegg told MPs: "It is a
question of when, not if, because the rules [of the EU] are bound to change." He
believes one is inevitable because a new EU treaty will be needed to entrench
eurozone reforms in the next few years, and the Coalition has already passed a
law guaranteeing a referendum if there is a significant transfer of powers to
Brussels.

Some 114 Tories rejected pressure from their whips by opposing the Coalition's
legislative programme because it does not offer the public a vote on EU
membership. They backed an amendment to the Queen's Speech regretting the
absence of a Referendum Bill. Although the amendment was defeated by 277 votes
to 130, it was the biggest backbench revolt on Europe since the 2010 election.

The Eurosceptics were delighted by their show of strength. But Tory officials
played down the revolt, insisting it was a free vote because the amendment was
in line with party policy. But it was clear that Mr Cameron's decision to rush
out a draft Referendum Bill on Tuesday had failed to quell the rebellion.

Douglas Alexander, the shadow Foreign Secretary, said: "This vote is a further
devastating blow to the Prime Minister's authority. It demonstrates that David
Cameron has managed to turn a Europe issue into a leadership issue. This is a
Prime Minister who has lost control of the agenda and tonight lost control of
his party."

John Baron, the Eurosceptic who tabled the rebel amendment, warned he was "not
going to walk away" from the fight for a referendum, insisting MPs needed to
pass legislation to "bridge trust" with the public. He said he had "deep
reservations" about Mr Cameron's plan to support a backbench Bill guaranteeing a
referendum by 2017, because such a measure could be blocked by "a determined
minority".

Mr Clegg's decision to harden the Liberal Democrats' 2010 pledge for an in/out
referendum when there is significant change in the UK-EU relationship, put
pressure on Labour to follow suit. Ed Balls, the shadow Chancellor, gave
Labour's strongest hint that it might support a public vote when he told the
Commons: "If there was a treaty change which changed the balance of powers, we
would support a referendum. I think it is really important that we understand
and listen to people's concerns about Europe and show that we can reform."

Labour and the Liberal Democrats believe Mr Cameron is wrong to fix the 2017
timetable now. Both parties intend to campaign in favour of Britain's continued
EU membership. But yesterday's statements show they are worried about
Conservative claims that they want to deny the public a say on Europe.

Mr Clegg's remarks could remove an obstacle to a second Lib-Con coalition if the
2015 election results in another hung parliament.

Today Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrat Business Secretary, will warn the
Conservatives that dancing to the UK Independence Party's tune after this
month's local elections could cost investment and jobs.

He will say in a speech: "No serious friend of British business would be
advocating the break-up of Britain's relations with the EU. We can't have hearts
ruling heads. It is simply self-indulgent and reckless for parties or
individuals to risk so much in order to address one concern raised in a council
election by just 7 per cent of the electorate."

The Tories insist they are the only main party guaranteeing a referendum.
Speaking in New York, Mr Cameron accused Ed Miliband and Mr Clegg of "sticking
their heads in the sand" and "pretending nothing has changed" in the arguments
over Britain's place within the EU.

He said: "Britain needs to be a part of forging that change, just as the
eurozone countries come together and do more things together, so those countries
outside the eurozone need to work out how they're going to make their
relationship work with Europe."

KEY VOICES

HOW THE DEBATE UNFOLDED

The political establishment has essentially closed ranks over the past 30 years
and denied the electorate a choice

JOHN BARON

Tory MP who proposed the amendment regretting absence of EU referendum in the
Queen's Speech

My party has always believed there should be a referendum on Europe when the
rules change, when new things are being asked of the UK within the EU ??? That's
what we have now acted on in Government

NICK CLEGG

Deputy Prime Minister

The holy grail of trade agreements is an EU/US deal. We would look pretty dumb
if we were leaving the EU just as the EU was signing up to that agreement

RICHARD OTTAWAY

Tory chairman of the Foreign Affairs Select Committee

Those who voted Ukip and are likely to vote Ukip in the Euro elections will not
be impressed unless we are making every effort to have a referendum as soon as
possible

BERNARD JENKIN

Tory Eurosceptic

If there was a [EU] treaty change which changed the balance of powers, we would
support a referendum

ED BALLS

Shadow Chancellor

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

International laughing stock, Prime Minister? Don't worry - just blame it all on
the rebels;
SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 419 words


Vainly urging the beleaguered David Cameron to endure even more humiliation than
he has taken already by ordering ministers to support yesterday's rebel
amendment, John Baron suggested that the Prime Minister could always "blame me"
for doing so.

Great idea, John. Having become an international laughing stock by opposing his
own Queen's Speech, all Cameron would need to do is murmur the Basildon MP's
name as he toured the Chancelleries of Europe. "Ah, it was Monsieur/Signor/Herr
Baron," they would all say, clucking sympathetically: "Of course, we
understand."

There are things to admire about Baron, including his 2003 resignation from the
Tory frontbench over the invasion of Iraq. But at times his demeanour suggests
an inflated sense of himself as a famous Man of Destiny, like his fellow
Sandhurst graduate Winston Churchill during the wilderness years, perhaps. This
would be more convincing if his basic pitch wasn't that of a Mafia operative
offering protection that it would be unwise to refuse.

He was giving the PM a "golden opportunity", he said. A Bill was needed "not
because we do not trust the Prime Minister," which he and his cohorts obviously
don't, "but because the electorate don't trust politicians generally". The
current referendum pledge was "credible" but not yet "believable".

Deconstruct that if you can.

Otherwise, in an orgy of hypothetical challenges all round, Ed Balls asked his
Tory counterpart, Chancellor George Osborne, how he would vote in a EU
referendum if the government failed to negotiate big concessions in Brussels -
an outcome confidently predicted by Lord Lawson. Won't happen, insisted Osborne,
who wanted to know if Balls would "rule out" a Labour referendum pledge in the
next election. Balls wasn't answering.

Earlier, the new macho 2013 model Nick Clegg more or less shouted himself out of
trouble, taking Prime Minister's Questions in what is beginning to seem like the
routine absence of Cameron. Which is probably the Lib Dem leader's best ploy
when the MPs behind you are the ones causing most trouble - of which Edward
Leigh's production of a 2008 Clegg leaflet promising a referendum posing the
question "an impostor or just a hypocrite?" was only one of several examples.

For Cameron, however, it must all seem spookily like a rerun of John Major's
Maastricht torments. All the Prime Minister now needs is to be caught off
camera, as his predecessor was, fulminating against Tory "bastards". If that
happens it really will be worth staying away from the Commons.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Old Tory scepticism has won, yet Europe still ravages the party;
COMMENT

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 908 words


The Eurosceptics have won. They won long ago. Conservative MPs who rage about
Europe should get out a good bottle of French wine and celebrate instead. It is
the misty-eyed pro-Europeans who have lost. Indeed they have been slaughtered,
their dreams are in tatters. They are almost nowhere to be seen in British
public life. And yet it is the ubiquitous Tory Eurosceptics who are miserable
and alarmed.

Commentators make the obvious parallels with John Major and his fatally
fractious party in the 1990s. There are many echoes. But let us also recall what
Major's rebellious backbenchers were demanding. One Tory MP after another
declared back then that they were opposed to Britain entering the single
currency and that they wanted to see a European Union enlarged, in order to
challenge the dominance of France and Germany.

They got everything they sought. Britain remains outside the euro. The EU is so
enlarged that no single country can dominate in the way that was once possible.
These were two early, decisive victories for Major's insurgents. Since then, the
rebels have secured incomparably more.

There was a moment of heightened danger for the Eurosceptics, but that moment
has emphatically passed. It came with the election of Tony Blair in 1997. As Ed
Miliband once observed when a youthful adviser at the Treasury, for the likes of
Blair and Peter Mandelson "Europe" had become a cause partly because they had no
other. They were no longer left-of-centre social democrats and within that
vacuum they hit upon a new historic mission - to reconcile the UK to "Europe".

In an interview recently, Alastair Campbell suggested that Blair's biggest
regret was failing to take Britain into the euro. So, the anxieties of
Eurosceptics then were partially justified. They were right to be on their
guard. They might have lost.

However, once again they won. Blair never made his moves in Europe and when it
came to the biggest call of his career, over Iraq, he sided Thatcher-like with a
Republican President in the US rather than with the big countries in the EU.

Conservative Eurosceptics deserve credit for making entry into the euro
impossible, as do Gordon Brown and Ed Balls, who took what was a deeply
unfashionable stance on the centre-left in highlighting the dangers of joining
monetary union. The sceptics had won again.

After all these oscillations, the UK is by no means in a perfect situation. The
EU is obviously imperfect. There are big issues about accountability, efficiency
and fundamental questions about what an enlarged EU should be doing and what it
should not be doing. Yet if anyone can stand back for a second or two from the
current frenzy it is clear that being semi-detached insiders is better than any
other option and that, for once, the cliché applies, that if there were no
European Union we would need to invent one, or an institution very close to it.

Take the single market, part of the EU that even most Eurosceptics regard as
important for the British economy. For a single market to work there needs to be
rules. The rules have to be administered by so-called bureaucrats. The rules
need to be agreed and constantly reviewed by elected politicians because we, the
voters, need to hold them to account for what is happening. Suddenly, we get a
complicated multi-tiered model, but without the model there is no single market.

Similarly, when our criminals flee to other parts of Europe do we want the
relevant countries to co-operate with us or not? Eurosceptic news- papers scream
for co-operation when villains flee to nearby countries, then want to opt out of
all the rules that make such co-operation possible.

The current EU is in need of sweeping reform. But, here's the twist: other key
countries agree. David Cameron was pleasantly surprised to discover that Germany
had considerable sympathy for some of his objectives as he moved erratically
towards making his speech in January about the proposed referendum, the address
that was supposed to calm the Tories down.

When the former French President Giscard D'Estaing recently spoke at a debate on
Europe organised by The Spectator, he stressed that France wanted reforms too,
changes relating to efficiency and accountability. No EU leader wants to be
associated with any perceived lack of accountability and inefficiency.

A bonus for Eurosceptics is that while there is an opportunity for reform, there
is no chance of any further changes that would involve a transfer of power to
Brussels. All three main parties have agreed to referendums before any such
reforms are implemented, an historic change and another triumph for
Euroscepticism. As no such referendum could be won, no prime minister will dare
to agree to a treaty that transfers further powers.

In addition, domestic politics have changed within Britain. Tory Eurosceptics
can relax about Labour's approach to Europe. Miliband and Balls are pragmatists.
Labour's pro-European romantics are no longer in control, as far as they ever
were. Even Nick Clegg is seeking reform and supported the paralysing legislation
that triggers a referendum on any further transfers of power.

Cameron has been blamed for weak leadership, but mostly what is happening to his
party has little to do with him. He is in a weak position and can do no more
than muddle through as he twists and turns toward the next crisis.
Euroscept-icism has triumphed in the UK and yet his party is still impossible to
lead because of Europe.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

In favour of a referendum? Yes and no, says Clegg;
The DIARY

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 526 words


Nick Clegg has condemned the Tories' "endless navel gazing" over Europe, the
latest outcome of which was yesterday's draft referendum Bill, which the Liberal
Democrats regard as a vast distraction from the issues that actually matter. But
Mr Clegg, right, was not always so sniffy. In 2008, his picture adorned a
Liberal Democrat leaflet headed "It's time for a Real Referendum on Europe",
which invited signatures to a petition calling on the government to "give the
British people a real choice".

This was at a time when the Conservatives were promising a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty, an idea supported by some members of Mr Clegg's front bench. It
never happened because the treaty had been signed before the Tories came to
office in 2010, and they reckoned that it was too late.

Mr Clegg argued then that it was pointless having a referendum about a treaty;
better to have one on the fundamental issue of whether to stay in or leave the
EU.

It's not altogether clear why he now opposes the thing he was demanding five
years ago. Something to do with timing.

A dairy event for your diary

So much is happening in the world that it is hard to keep track. That is the
only excuse I have for completely missing the fact that the First Global Summit
on the Health Effects of Yoghurt was held in Boston on 24 April. I look forward
to the second.

The brief life of Colin, Sky's disaster man

The star of the Twittersphere for a short interlude yesterday was Colin. Colin
who? Nobody knows. Just Colin. He shot to fame when Sky News messaged the
902,000 followers of its Twitter feed to say simply: "Colin was here." This
provoked a flurry of messages asking about Colin, or claiming that he was
somewhere else. One Twitter message alleged that Nigel Farage was claiming that
Colin wanted the UK to leave the EU. But the life of Colin was all too brief.
The tweet was deleted, and Sky's press office explained that Colin was "a
'disaster recovery' test message which accidentally went live", adding that "no
Colin was harmed in the making of this message".

It's official: Ukip members are fools, not politicians

Ukip appears to have lost one of the newly-gained council seats already. Eric
Kitson, elected this month to Worcestershire County Council, has told the
Express & Star newspaper that he is "99 per cent sure" of his intention to
resign over some offensive messages he forwarded on Facebook, including one
showing Muslims being burned at the stake. He also posted a suggestion that Ukip
should work with other parties, including the BNP. "I'm not a politician - I'm a
bit of a fool really," he averred.

Life in the spotlight is not always flattering

The coverage of the Bafta awards on The Independent's website included an
appealing picture of Zoe Hardman, left, suffering a momentary hitch as she trod
the red carpet. Well, some would think it appealing, but that is not the view
taken by Beth Morris, director of the star's PR agency, Ardent, who emailed to
ask "whether it would be possible to switch out the photo that has been used for
Zoe Hardman??? to one that is more flattering?"

Of course it is possible, Beth, but that doesn't mean it's going to happen.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Mud wrestling is only entertaining now and again;
SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 398 words


Oh, how they laughed. Explaining George Osborne's absence from Treasury
Questions yesterday, Chief Secretary Danny Alexander was on side-splitting form.
"My right honourable friend the Chancellor is in Brussels today at the Ecofin
council," he told MPs, "exercising the considerable influence that Britain
enjoys as a full member of the European Union." Boom, boom!

Only with the coalition in its current euroshambles, could this have been so
hilarious. The mere idea that Britain enjoys such influence is a joke in itself
for diehard Eurosceptic MPs. For others there was the delight of seeing the
Cabinet's divisions laid bare by a Lib Dem minister who used to run the European
Movement. Or the Hell Fire Club as those same backbenchers would see it.

The normally super-loyal Alexander revelled in his pro-Europeanism. When Heidi
Alexander (no relation, but she might as well have been, given that it was such
a patsy question in the context) asked him how the latest Prime Ministerial
wheeze of a draft referendum bill "will 1) create jobs 2) attract investment and
3) secure Britain's future in the global economy?" his reply was crispy in the
extreme. "I don't think it would achieve any of those objectives and that's why
I don't support it."

Ed Balls later reminded Alexander that the IMF were "in town" - the phrase
conjures a posse of gun-slinging marshals led by Sheriff Christine Lagarde in a
Stetson - and asked why the Treasury was planning to ignore their verdict and
press ahead with its "failing plan".

Alexander recalled that an anonymous Shadow Cabinet member had been quoted in
The Sun saying: "Balls is a busted flush when it comes to economic competence
because of his legacy with Gordon."

Before this unedifying mud wrestle, Tory ultra-grandee Sir Peter Tapsell, also
with Europe on his mind, had sought to lift the tone by asking how the G7
finance ministers had been "remarkably cheerful" at their weekend meeting in
Aylesbury while "the Archbishop of Toledo was warning that their fiscal policies
were threatening to cause social breakdown and the overthrow of democracy in
Spain and much of southern Europe?" He did not mention that Osborne had been so
cheerful that he had slipped out of the meeting to help the members of the local
Women's Institute make the tea.

But then it was probably only a ruse to get away from the baleful presence at
Aylesbury of Ms Lagarde.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Referendum Bill is my last concession to Eurosceptics, says PM;
Promise of membership vote in 2017 unlikely to be enshrined in law

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE and NIGEL MORRIS in New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 707 words


David Cameron has ruled out any further concessions to his hardline Eurosceptic
MPs as they prepared to defy him by staging a Commons revolt today.

The Prime Minister tried to end the damaging impression that he is being pushed
around by rebel Conservative backbenchers yesterday, as his party rushed out a
Draft European Union (Referendum) Bill.

The early version of the proposed legislation would promise that, before 31
December 2017, the public would be asked: "Do you think that the UK should
remain a member of the European Union?" But the Bill, likely to be introduced by
a Tory MP as a Private Member's Bill, stands little chance of becoming law
because of Labour and Liberal Democrat opposition and lack of Parliamentary
time.

Mr Cameron is aiming to remind the public of his pledge to hold a referendum by
2017 and limit the scale of the Tory revolt today, when MPs are expected to vote
on an amendment regretting the absence of a referendum Bill in the Queen's
Speech.

Publication of the draft Bill has persuaded some Eurosceptics not to vote
against the Speech. But hardliners said the Prime Minister had not gone far
enough and rejected pressure to back down.

Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, predicted that about 100 Tories would
support the amendment and said Mr Cameron should overrule Nick Clegg by bringing
in the Bill as a government measure - even if that ended the Coalition. He
admitted: "It is undignified and there is some chaos in Number 10 this week."

John Baron, who tabled the amendment, said the Bill was "a small step in the
right direction", but added: "Number 10 knows that a Private Member's Bill could
fail."

Tory officials played down the rebellion, saying backbenchers and ministerial
aides had a free vote. They also insisted a backbench Bill would have a chance
of becoming law. Senior Tory sources said Mr Cameron would not make fresh
concessions to his critics, however. "This is our red line, we are not going to
give them any more ground," one said, citing the public support for Mr Cameron's
stance on the EU from US President Barack Obama on Monday. "We've now got Obama
and this Bill. It's like building a big dam."

Speaking during a three-day tour of Americae, Mr Cameron denied he had been
"panicked" into bringing forward the draft Bill. "When all the dust has settled
I think that people will be able to see that there is one party, the
Conservative Party, offering that in/out referendum and two other mainstream
parties, the Liberal Democrats and Labour, who oppose an in/out referendum," he
said.

The Tories tried to turn the spotlight away from their tensions over Europe.
Grant Shapps, the Tory party chairman, said: "Labour and the Liberal Democrats
have shown complete disdain for the views of the British people in denying them
a say in a referendum. When will they have the courage to follow this
government's lead?"

Some Labour figures, including the shadow Chancellor Ed Balls, believe the party
should consider matching the Tories' referendum pledge. Keith Vaz, Dennis
Skinner and John Cryer, called for a change of policy at the weekly meeting of
Labour MPs on Monday. But the Shadow Cabinet agreed yesterday to oppose the
draft Bill.

Douglas Alexander, the shadow Foreign Secretary, right, said: "Our judgment is
that the national interest today is served by a laser-like focus on stability,
growth and jobs. This latest step has more to do with David Cameron trying to
get his party back in line rather than getting the economy back on track."

Lib Dems accused the Tories of blaming Mr Clegg's party to distract attention
from their own divisions. A senior Lib Dem source said: "The ink is barely dry
on the legislation passed by this Coalition Government that gives the British
people a guarantee in law that there will be a referendum next time power is
transferred from Westminster to Brussels.

"Now the Tories have changed their mind and want to reopen the issue all over
again. They want to talk about their obsession with Europe but then blame the
Lib Dems. While the Tories bang on and on about Europe, the Lib Dems will
concentrate on jobs and growth."

Nigel Farage, leader ofUkip, said the draft Bill "does not have the weight of
law because no parliament can bind its successor."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Time for Mr Cameron to stand up for Europe;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 597 words


The juxtaposition could hardly be more marked. On one side of the Atlantic,
yesterday afternoon, the Prime Minister stood alongside Barack Obama in the
White House and extolled the virtues of a US/EU trade agreement he has described
as a "once-in-a-generation prize". Meanwhile, back at home, his party is
whipping itself into an anti-European fervour, and a not-insignificant cadre of
MPs is gearing up to back a rebel amendment criticising the Queen's Speech for
failing to set in train an in/out referendum.

For parliamentarians to censure their own Government's legislative programme is
a rare step. Even more unusual is for the Prime Minister to allow backbenchers
(although, in fairness, not ministers) a free rein on the issue. There has been
a multitude of rationalisations in recent days - the vote allows the frustrated
to let off steam, it shows the electorate what the Tories would do with a
majority, and so on. None is sufficient to explain away either the
Conservatives' rapid reversion to type on Europe, or Mr Cameron's so obvious
loss of control of them.

The sceptical rumblings were disruptive enough when they were restricted to a
disaffected rump, frustrated by coalition and blaming their modernising leader
for it. But the old obsession is spreading. Last week's outbursts from Lord
Lawson and Michael Portillo fanned the flames. Then, Sunday's admissions from
two Tory cabinet ministers that, in a referendum tomorrow, they would vote to
leave poured on the petrol.

The damage to the Prime Minister's authority is so catastrophic that it barely
matters that neither Michael Gove nor Philip Hammond will put their name to the
forthcoming vote. Mr Cameron was reduced to a blustering dismissal of their
remarks - from the US - on the grounds that, since there is to be no immediate
referendum, they are merely "hypothetical". So weak a response speaks volumes of
the weakness of his position.

But the Tory leader is not the only one in danger of being engulfed by the
conflagration. The party's chances of electoral success are no less at risk. For
all the polls suggesting that a small majority of the public, spooked by the
euro crisis, is now in favour of withdrawal, Europe is far down the list of
priorities when compared with the stagnant economy, ever-rising living costs and
immigration, to name but three. Nor do parties riven with internal strife endear
themselves to the electorate. Another two years of watching the Tories tear
themselves apart - again - over Europe will guarantee nothing so certainly as a
Conservative defeat.

In the meantime, it is Britain that will be the loser if the Prime Minister
allows himself to be dragged hither and thither by the whims of his party's
neuroses. And it is with the country, after all - and not his party - that Mr
Cameron's primary responsibilities lie. In fact, this week's trip to the US
offers the Prime Minister an ideal opportunity to regain the initiative and act
the statesman he is supposed to be.

First, there is the trade agreement. With its potential to add perhaps £10bn per
year to British GDP, the proposed pact is emblematic of the economic benefits of
our remaining within Europe. It is up to Mr Cameron to say so. Then there is Mr
Obama's observation yesterday - and not for the first time - that participation
in the EU is a factor in Britain's influence. Again, it is up to the Prime
Minister to be sure that the message is heard.

Mr Cameron has said that, pending a renegotiation of Britain's position, he
hopes to vote Yes in any in/out referendum. It is time he started explaining why
that is.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron releases referendum Bill in bid to quell Tory revolt on Europe;
Prime Minister's plan for EU vote backed by President Obama as Commons rebellion
overshadows trade talks in Washington

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS in Washington and ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 826 words


David Cameron will try today to quell a growing rebellion by his MPs over
Europe, after Barack Obama urged them to give the Prime Minister the space to
win a better deal from the EU before Britain decides whether or not to leave it.

The Conservative leadership will publish a draft Bill to guarantee that an
in/out referendum on Europe will be held by 2017. The timing is designed to
limit a revolt in the Commons tomorrow and put pressure on the Liberal Democrats
and Labour, who oppose committing now to a referendum some years away.

Speaking at a joint press conference with the Prime Minister at the White House,
the United States President made clear that his administration would prefer the
UK to remain in the EU club but said the final decision was a matter for the
British people. He said: "David's basic point - that you probably want to see if
you can fix what's broken in a very important relationship before you break it
off - makes some sense to me."

Mr Obama went on: "The UK's participation in the EU is an expression of its
influence and its role in the world, as well as, obviously, a very important
economic partnership."

However, the President acknowledged that Mr Cameron faced "tough negotiations"
over reform of the EU and stopped short of predicting success for Mr Cameron. "I
would be interested in seeing whether or not those are successful before
rendering a final judgement," he said.

Mr Obama's intervention, welcomed by Cameron aides, is significant because Tory
Eurosceptics argue that the UK's much-trumpeted "special relationship" with the
US could be strengthened if Britain left the EU. In their talks at the White
House, the two leaders discussed plans for a historic EU-US trade deal, which
pro-Europeans hope will become a selling point for continued UK membership.

Asked how he would vote if an EU referendum were held now, Mr Cameron told the
press conference: "There's a very good reason why there's not going to be a
referendum tomorrow, [and that's] because it would give the British public, I
think, an entirely false choice between the status quo ... and leaving."

The draft Bill, to be unveiled today by the Foreign Secretary, William Hague
(pictured below), will be seen as a way to strengthen Mr Cameron's promise of a
referendum if his party wins the 2015 general election. It is unlikely to be
introduced as a government measure because the Liberal Democrats oppose the
idea. But it could make progress through Parliament as a backbench Bill. A
Conservative source said last night: "We will examine all the options to bring
this Bill before Parliament, including a Private Member's Bill, in keeping with
what the Prime Minister has said."

More than 70 Tory MPs have taken the unusual step of signing an amendment to
last week's Queen's Speech regretting the absence of an EU referendum Bill.
Ministers have been told they can abstain in a vote on it due tomorrow, but
backbenchers and ministerial aides will be allowed to support the amendment.

If the Bill starts its passage through Parliament, Mr Cameron hopes it will
"shine a spotlight" on his referendum pledge and counter the recent surge by the
UK Independence Party. He also hopes the Bill will put the Liberal Democrats and
Labour on the spot by forcing them to decide quickly whether they support or
oppose giving the public a say on Britain's position in Europe.

Mr Cameron said yesterday: "Everything is driven by what is in the British
national interest. That is what I'm going to deliver. It's absolutely right for
our country. It has very strong support throughout the country and in the
Conservative Party and that's exactly what I'm going to do."

Earlier, Mr Cameron rebuked two Cabinet ministers for suggesting they would vote
for Britain to quit the EU. He dismissed the question as "hypothetical" after
the Education Secretary, Michael Gove, and the Defence Secretary, Philip
Hammond, became the most senior Conservatives to indicate they would consider
supporting Britain's exit from the EU if a vote were held now.

The Prime Minister also criticised former Cabinet ministers, including Lord
Lawson and Michael Portillo, for suggesting the UK should pull out. "The point I
would make to those people is you should not give up before a negotiation has
started. It seems to be an extraordinary way to go about things," he said. "The
idea of throwing in the towel before the negotiations have even started, I
think, is a very, very strange opinion."

Britain will double military support for Syrian rebels to help them withstand
the "onslaught" from Bashar Assad's regime, Mr Cameron announced. Spending on
non-lethal military equipment, such as body armour and armed vehicles, is being
increased this year from £10m to £20m.

Mr Cameron flew to Boston last night to visit the site of last month's marathon
bombings, in which three people were killed. He will fly to New York later today
where he will meet Prince Harry to bang the drum for British exports.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Will Soames be remembered as the new Horatius?;
SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 391 words


Rising to his feet, Nicholas Soames, the larger than life - in every sense -
Tory MP for Mid-Sussex spread a frisson of anticipation among MPs assembled for
day three of the Queen's Speech debate. Would Mr Soames, whose brilliant yellow
socks once appalled Margaret Thatcher - would this grandson of Winston Churchill
whose father was not only a former ambassador to France but Vice-President of
the European Commission - would he be able to resist the opportunity to place
his imposing bulk in the way of the Europhobic hordes threatening to over-run
his great party?

No, he wouldn't. "I think that some of my honourable and indeed my right
honourable [this a scarcely coded reference to the cabinet members present and
past who want out: Gove, Hammond, Lawson, Portillo et al] need to be a little
cautious in trivialising what is involved," he thundered, before announcing that
the "hugely important decision" envisaged in the promised referendum was "not to
be taken on the basis of prejudice or pub rhetoric. No good is done to the
public governance of this country in this constant chipping away at trust and at
the Government's integrity. If the Prime Minister says that something will
happen ??? it will happen, with orderly process and proper debate, and not in
some hysterical, knee-jerk publicity-seeking act".

"Pub rhetoric"? "Knee-jerk publicity seeking"? Perhaps only a man with his
political pedigree could have so magisterially condemned the tormentors of the
absent Cameron. True, Sir Malcolm Rifkind had expressed on the Today programme
his bafflement that anti-European government backbenchers had decided to split
the party by amending the Queen's Speech on the non-issue of whether it should
have included a Referendum Bill.

But not even he had laid about the "big beasts" of anti-Europeanism. And while
even Boris Johnson had declared that Cameron had his "full support" in promising
a referendum, in true Borisian style he had carefully kept his options open on
how he would vote in it.

So, Soames was Horatius at the bridge to Rome - as plucky and, among Tory
backbenchers prepared to speak out, almost as lonely. Would he be for ever
commemorated for gallantly stemming the tide engulfing his party, as has been
the Captain of the Gates for seeing off Lars Porsena's Etruscan invaders?

Cameron, 3,600 miles away, could only hope so.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Eurosceptics come out of the shadows in force;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: JAMES CUSICK Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 482 words


Whether they win or lose tomorrow's attempt at forcing the referendum on Europe
into the heart of the Queen's Speech, the Conservative dissidents who have
engineered what one MP admitted was "constitutional symbolic chaos" believe they
have already succeeded in wresting control of the EU debate away from David
Cameron.

While the Prime Minister was taking tea in the Oval Office, a series of private
meetings were being held in Westminster among Tory Eurosceptics to discuss what
happens next. The mood inside some of the rooms is said to have been remarkably
upbeat.

The recent interventions by Lord Lawson, Michael Portillo, Phillip Hammond and
Chris Grayling have - according to a core of the dissidents - given the party's
anti-EU wing two elements it lacked in previous outings: "intellectual
respectability" allied to a recognised "political profitability" in openly
challenging the EU merits. Euroscepticism hiding in the shadows of Tory policy
appear to be over.

Key members of Mr Cameron's Cabinet are said to be contemplating cashing in on
the "profitability" of questioning remaining inside the EU club, regardless of
No 10's official stance that any debate is premature until the outcome of future
negotiations is known. Lord Lawson described such negotiations as
"inconsequential". Backbench rebels want this criticism to become more brutal.

So why the change? What happened to the discontented "bastards" that undermined
the authority of John Major's administration? What changed is the QED at the end
of current Eurosceptic calculations. It simply reads: Ukip. The "profitability"
in admitting that the Ukip protest votes is three Tories against one from other
parties, is crucial.

Yesterday's discussions centred on "the three stages of Ukip success": box 1,
local elections, has already been ticked; box 2, next year's Europe elections,
are already predicted as a given victory for Nigel Farage's party. All point to
increased media coverage for Ukip, integration into the mainstream, and
crucially, more money. In conversations with The Independent, numerous Tory MPs
agreed the aim of the rebellion was to disarm the idea that only Ukip can take
the UK out of the EU. One backbencher said: "If we prove this party is
intellectually committed to questioning EU membership - then we show there is
little point in voting Ukip."

Cameron is described by many of his own MPs as unable to form a strategy that
would force Labour and the Liberal Democrats to vote against a referendum. "That
would be toxic for Miliband and Clegg. So how are we trying to make this happen?
We aren't. Cameron has no endgame. It's down to us," said one.

Although nothing has been formally written down, the agreed aim of the 2013
rebellion is to force the referendum into the next Tory manifesto. One rebel
said: "Cameron says he fears Europe being the dominant political issue. It's too
late. It already is."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Tory split deepens as Hammond and Gove join the 'Out' gang

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 142 words


The Secretaries of State for Education and Defence have become the first serving
cabinet ministers to break from the Conservative leadership's cautious official
line on the European Union yesterday, saying they would vote to leave the
organisation if a referendum on the divisive issue was held now.

The comments from Michael Gove and Philip Hammond raise the prospect of a
rebellion against the Queen's Speech should the House of Commons Speaker, John
Bercow, allow a vote on a motion put forward by backbench MPs expressing
"regret" at the silence on the EU last week.

There is no precedent in modern politics for members of a governing party voting
for a motion criticising its own Queen's Speech.

Mr Cameron has reportedly told his ministers to abstain if the vote goes ahead.
He hopes to secure concessions on Europe that will keep Britain in the EU.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Ministers break ranks with call for referendum;
Pressure on Cameron as Gove and Hammond say they would vote for immediate EU
exit

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 652 words


Two Tory ministers edged the Conservative Party closer to calling for an end to
Britain's membership of the EU, saying that if relations did not change, they
would vote for an immediate exit.

First to break cover was Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, whose position
was markedly different from that of the Prime Minister, David Cameron, whose aim
is to bring about sufficient change in the EU to persuade the public to vote in
a referendum to stay in.

Asked by the BBC yesterday whether he would vote to leave the EU if a referendum
were held now, Mr Gove replied: "Yes, I'm not happy with our position in the
European Union."

But after serving that morsel of raw meat to the Tory right wing, Mr Gove
immediately stepped back into line behind the Prime Minister's strategy. He told
the broadcaster's deputy political editor, James Landale: "My preference is for
a change in Britain's relationship with the European Union. My ideal is exactly
what the majority of the British public's ideal is, which is to recognise the
current situation is no good, to say that life outside would be perfectly
tolerable, we could contemplate it, there would be certain advantages."

Later, the Defence Secretary, Philip Hammond, echoed his words, telling the
BBC's John Pienaar that he too would vote to leave the EU under current
circumstances - although he predicted that Mr Cameron would be able to secure
more acceptable conditions for Britain.

The Speaker, John Bercow, has yet to rule on whether the Commons will vote on a
motion put forward by backbench MPs expressing "regret" that there was no
mention of an EU referendum in last week's Queen's Speech. Mr Cameron, who will
be absent on a visit to the United States, has told ministers to abstain if the
vote is held.

Mr Gove also dismissed suggestions that the Conservatives were "at war" because
large numbers of backbench MPs intended to back the rebel amendment.

"You can't have a civil war when everyone's on the same side," he said.
"Fundamentally, the majority, the overwhelming majority of Conservative MPs
would like to have a different relationship between Britain and Europe, and I
emphatically want a different relationship."

There is no known precedent in modern politics for the prospect of members of a
governing party voting for a motion criticising their own Queen's Speech, and of
ministers not rallying to its defence.

But Downing Street defended Mr Cameron's position, saying: "We don't want to be
in a position of instructing the party to vote against a motion we actually
support. This is not the same as ministers voting down the Queen's Speech."

Some Labour politicians agree that the public should have a vote on whether to
stay in the EU, although unlike the Tory right, they hope it will settle the
issue in favour of continued membership. A new group, Labour for a Referendum,
is to be launched next month, with the backing of the former Europe minister,
Keith Vaz, the comic actor Richard Wilson and The Independent columnist Owen
Jones. Mr Wilson said: "As a pro-European I want to put the issue to bed once
and for all."

But the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, told Sky's Murnaghan programme there were
more urgent priorities.

EXIT STRATEGY

TORY VOICES

Lord Lawson

The former Chancellor was the first major Tory figure to declare a desire to
pull out of the EU, writing last Tuesday that it was a "bureaucratic
monstrosity" and claiming that "leaving would substantially outweigh the costs".

Michael Portillo

The former Defence Secretary followed on Wednesday, saying he "fervently" hoped
the British public had the "guts" to vote for the UK to leave.

Boris Johnson

London's Mayor said on Friday he it would not be "cataclysmic" if Britain pulled
out.

Michael Gove

The Education Secretary became the first serving minister to say he would leave
the EU if a referendum were held now.

Philip Hammond

The Defence Secretary said that he would support Gove's position.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Why the Coalition is still doomed to last until 2015;
INSIDE WESTMINSTER

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 820 words


Nick Clegg and Ed Miliband talked intensely at St Paul's Cathedral as they
waited for Margaret Thatcher's funeral to begin. They walked away from the other
mourners and brushed away aides who tried to interrupt them. A funeral was a
rather strange event at which to cement their improving relationship. The
catalyst was their shared instincts on the Leveson report about press
regulation. They did not share David Cameron's hostility to "statutory
underpinning" a new system. Mr Clegg sided with Mr Miliband rather than the man
with whom he is in Coalition and stuck to his guns.

Mr Clegg's stance was an ice-breaker. Until then, many Labour politicians could
not forgive him for joining the Conservatives in Coalition three years ago
today. Now Mr Clegg and Mr Miliband realise they have much more in common than
their views on the newspaper industry. Labour has embraced the long-standing
Liberal Democrat policy of a mansion tax on homes worth more than £2m. The two
leaders are on the same page on Europe. They believe that Mr Cameron's promise
of an in/out referendum by 2017 could put job-creating foreign investment at
risk and lead to the EU exit door.

The Labour and Liberal Democrat leaders know their personal relationship would
matter in the event of another hung parliament after the 2015 general election,
a prospect that looks more likely after the UK Independence Party's arrival as a
serious force. The present Coalition was built on the solid foundation of Mr
Clegg's relationship with Mr Cameron. As the Labour peer Lord Adonis notes in
his revealing new book 5 Days in May about the negotiations after the last
election: "Cameron and Clegg cultivated good relations in opposition before
2010. This was crucial to the formation of the Coalition, as it has been to the
weathering of vicissitudes since."

The Cameron-Clegg relationship is certainly being tested now. The past week was
supposed to be what their aides call a "proalition moment", as the two parties
promoted their joint Queen's Speech. It was anything but. Although the Coalition
is not going to crash and will probably stay on the road until 2015, we may look
back on this week as the moment when the wheels started to come loose. The
Speech was notable for what was left out because the Coalition partners could
not agree. Mr Clegg vetoed the so-called "snooper's charter", while Mr Cameron
blocked a law on overseas aid spending.

It looked like tit-for-tat politics and there was more to come. Mr Clegg
disowned government plans to increase the number of children that can be looked
after by individual nursery staff and childminders. Furious Tories claim he
crossed a rubicon because he had backed the move last December. Mr Clegg is
equally furious - about being accused of breaking Coalition rules. He has raised
his doubts about relaxing the childcare ratios with Mr Cameron on several
occasions recently. A leaked email shows his previous backing made clear the
Government "will take account of the results of the consultation", an exercise
which found overwhelming hostility among parents, providers and experts.

In turn, Mr Cameron gave Tory MPs and ministers the green light to back an
amendment to the Queen's Speech regretting the absence of an EU referendum bill
- in other words, blaming it on Europhile Liberal Democrats. The Speech is
already frayed.

The two parties were always going to diverge before the 2015 election but it has
started a year earlier than most insiders expected. "The mood is very scratchy,"
one Cabinet minister admitted. "There are lots of rows. Things have changed."

The Cameron-Clegg relationship is now described by their aides as "professional"
and "business-like" rather than close. Neither man wants an election before 2015
with the economy flat, so the Coalition is still doomed to last.

The Coalition's other crucial strength, as Lord Adonis notes, has been agreement
on economic policy. This is about to be tested amid huge tensions over the
£11.5bn of spending cuts to be announced by George Osborne on 26 June. It won't
all be about rows between the Tories and Liberal Democrats as departmental
ministers defend their own turf. "There will be blue-on-blue attacks as well as
blue on yellow and yellow on blue," one insider said. Mr Miliband will be
watching how his new friend plays it.

In public, the Labour leader is sticking to his line that it would be
"difficult" to be in coalition with Mr Clegg after he had been Deputy Prime
Minister in a Tory-led Government. But Mr Miliband is careful not to use the
word "never."

The Labour leader will not start saying nice things about the Liberal Democrats
in public. He desperately needs to keep the voters who have switched from Mr
Clegg's party to Labour since 2010, without whom he would have no hope of
outright victory in 2015. Until then, the growing mutual respect between Mr
Miliband and Mr Clegg will be the love that dare not speak its name.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Miliband to rule out promise of a referendum on Europe

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 464 words


Ed Miliband will today reject calls for Labour to respond to the rise of the UK
Independence Party (Ukip) by promising a referendum on the European Union.

Addressing the Blairite group Progress in London, Mr Miliband will say: "Our
national interest lies in staying in the EU and working for the changes that
will make it work better for Britain."

Criticising David Cameron's promise of a Europe referendum by 2017, he will say:
"It is wrong now to commit to an in/out referendum and have four years of
uncertainty and a 'closed for business' sign above our country. Let me be very
clear: we will always make decisions on these issues in the national interest."

His remarks suggest Labour is unlikely to offer a referendum in its 2015
election manifesto, a move favoured by some Labour MPs in order to neutralise Mr
Cameron's pledge. Mr Miliband's aides insist a final decision will be taken "in
the national interest" closer to the election.

Mr Miliband will describe Ukip as a "party of protest" after its success in this
month's local elections, while insisting that Labour is a "party of solutions".
He will ridicule Mr Cameron for allowing Conservative MPs and ministers to vote
next week for an amendment to the Queen's Speech regretting the absence of an EU
referendum bill. Labour will join the Liberal Democrats in voting against the
amendment.

Accusing the Prime Minister of putting his party interest before the national
interest, the Labour leader will say: "I know David Cameron is a man who likes
to be known for relaxing - even chillaxing - but, on this occasion, it beggars
belief.

"He's not lying on the sofa, relaxed. He's hiding behind the sofa, too scared to
confront his own MPs. It's not chillaxing. It is weak and panicked. He's
flailing around, directionless, unable to show the leadership the country
needs."

Mr Miliband will tell the Blairite group's annual conference that his party
needs to move on from New Labour but will deny that means lurching to the left.
He will reject criticism by Tony Blair last month that Labour risks becoming a
party of protest as it opposes the Coalition's spending cuts.

"To be true to the traditions of our party and indeed of Progress, the task of
this generation is to take our values and develop an agenda fit for purpose to
meet the challenges of our time," he will say.

"Just as in the 1990s, Labour adapted to change. So too today. The policies for
today will not be the same as those we put forward back then, or in 2005, or in
2010."

But Mr Miliband will reject a return to the Old Labour agenda demanded by some
trade union leaders: "We are not going to go back, make false promises or look
for easy answers. We will have to pay the deficit down we cannot promise to
reverse every cut and we will not just sit back and wait."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

If Cameron's relaxed, he doesn't know his history;
The DIARY

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 572 words


David Cameron may be "relaxed" about having some of his backbench MPs table an
amendment to the Queen's Speech that will call for a referendum on Britain's
membership of the European Union but, strictly speaking, it is nothing to be
relaxed about. On the official parliamentary website, there is a portentous
warning: "The first parliamentary test of a minority or coalition government is
the vote on an amendment to the Queen's Speech. If the Queen's Speech is
amended, the Prime Minister must resign." It last happened in January 1924, when
the minority Tory government collapsed, letting Labour in. Not, you would think,
a precedent about which Mr Cameron should be "relaxed".

A riddle: what do you call PMQs with no PM?

If he lost office, at least Mr Cameron would not have to endure Prime Minister's
Questions again. The variety of pretexts he finds for avoiding his Wednesday
morning appointments at the despatch box are so many and varied that he dropped
Ed Miliband into an embarrassing position at a drinks reception he hosted for
political journalists on Thursday evening. During one of the conversations, it
dawned on the hacks that the Labour leader did not know that once again there
will be no Prime Minister's Questions this coming Wednesday, because the Prime
Minister will be out of the country. Miliband was visibly taken aback when
journos broke the news.

Get well soon, Graham

One person not seen in Westminster recently is Graham Stuart, pictured above,
the Conservative MP for Beverley and Holderness, who had a nasty fall skiing in
France nearly two months ago, injuring his pelvis, breaking several ribs and
puncturing a lung. He is not yet mended, but is on the mend. "I'll be back on
Monday, albeit in a wheelchair," he says.

Nadine Dorries: putting the 'o' in social media

Ed Balls once set off a trend in Twitter when he accidentally sent out a tweet
that said nothing but "Ed Balls". Now Nadine Dorries, left, has made a similar
error: in the heady excitement of being reinstated as a Tory MP, she put out a
tweet consisting just of the letter 'o'. "You're not as good as Ed Balls," one
disappointed recipient tweeted back. To which she retorted: "And I don't give a
flying ferret!" But she is as high as a flying ferret.

At last, Opik finds an appreciative audience

Almost everything the former Liberal Democrat MP Lembit Opik, below, did during
his political career turned to failure. So too his relationships and affairs
with well known women, and his various attempts to find a new profession since
he lost his seat in 2010. It is therefore delightful to read in the Oxford
University newspaper, Cherwell, about the runaway success of his recent
appearance at the Oxford Union, and particularly about how well the latter part
of the evening went, in a nearby bar, surrounded by undergraduates. "Lembit was
great, he is totally mad," a student exclaimed afterwards. "I'm not sure exactly
how much he drank, but he definitely started asking some people in president's
drinks about their masturbation habits, and in Bridge I'm pretty sure he likened
a toilet cubicle to Nick Clegg's office."

Students to test their mettle

New College Nottingham is offering a foundation degree in heavy metal. The
course starts in September and, in their second year, students will perform on
tour at venues around the country. It's enough to make people who get angry
about universities that offer pointless courses go deep purple.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Rebel MPs in fresh call for referendum on Europe

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 259 words


David Cameron faced a new Conservative rebellion over Europe last night as his
MPs challenged his authority by renewing their demands for a referendum.

Tory Eurosceptics took the unusual step of tabling an amendment to the Queen's
Speech regretting the absence of a Bill to guarantee Mr Cameron's promise to
hold an in/out referendum by 2017. It could be put to a Commons vote next week.

John Baron, the Tory MP who tabled the amendment, said: "The objective is to
keep the Government focused on this issue. It would send a clear message that we
are not going away." No 10 insisted Mr Cameron is "relaxed" about the amendment.
But the Liberal Democrats will oppose it.

Yesterday the Prime Minister criticised both Eurosceptics and Europhiles. He
told a London conference on global investment: "I am faced???. by two groups of
pessimists. There are some pro-European pessimists who say, 'you have to, in
Europe, simply sign up to every single thing that anyone in the EU suggests. You
sign every treaty, you sign everything - there is no alternative'. I think they
are completely wrong.

"The second group say there is no prospect of reforming the EU, you simply have
to leave. I think they are wrong too. I think it is possible to change and
reform this organisation and change and reform Britain's relationship with it."

Lord Lamont, the former Chancellor, became the latest senior Tory to support a
call for Britain to withdraw from the EU but said: "It is perfectly logical, and
reasonable actually, to make one final attempt to renegotiate our relationship."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Coalition adrift as key policies go missing from Queen's Speech;
Miliband accuses divided Coalition of running out of ideas

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words


The Coalition Government has been accused of running worryingly out of steam
after differences between the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats led to several
key measures being dropped from the Queen's Speech.

Two years before the next general election, the two Coalition parties have begun
to diverge earlier than expected as behind-the-scenes tensions between them are
exposed. They will have to present their final Queen's Speech of the five-year
parliament in a year's time and one minister admitted: "I don't know what we
will have left to put in it."

The package of policies for the next 12 months, announced yesterday, saw the
Conservatives shelve plans to bring in a minimum unit price for alcohol and
plain packaging for cigarettes, as they tried to focus on the economy, welfare
and immigration ahead of the 2015 election while avoiding measures that alienate
voters.

Also omitted were a statutory register of lobbyists and Nick Clegg's plans to
allow constituents to force a by-election when their MPs are guilty of
misconduct.

The Tories also refused to enshrine in law the Coalition's target to raise
spending on overseas aid to 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. Although the
Coalition will meet the goal, the decision means that future governments will
not be bound by it.

Mr Clegg had described such a law as "a priority" for the parliamentary session
which began yesterday. Aid groups warned that the world's poorest countries
would be unable to plan ahead for levels of UK assistance. The Liberal Democrats
pronounced as "dead" a Bill to allow the security services to track emails, text
messages and internet use, dubbed the "snoopers' charter". It was omitted from
the Queen's Speech after Mr Clegg objected and Liberal Democrats dismissed
speculation that it may be revived later. Mr Clegg vetoed a government Bill to
pave the way for the in/out referendum on the European Union that David Cameron
has promised by 2017. Instead, Tory ministers may support a backbench Bill.

A Labour source said: "The Coalition was meant to last for a five-year
parliament. It has run out of ideas after three years. The people who will
suffer are the British public, who are seeing no action on jobs and growth as
the economy flatlines."

Conservative and Liberal Democrat ministers denied that their programme was
"thin", pointing to two "meaty" social measures - to cap the amount old people
have to pay for residential care at £72,000 and the introduction of a
£144-a-week flat-rate state pension.

However, there were differences between the Coalition partners over the
Immigration Bill, seen by Tory ministers as a way of reassuring voters who
backed the UK Independence Party in last week's local elections.

The measure will restrict the right of migrants to free NHS treatment and social
housing but the details have not yet been worked out and may not be known before
the autumn.

Downing Street could not promise the law would come into effect before Romanians
and Bulgarians get the right to work in Britain from next January. The Liberal
Democrats said they supported a "tough but fair" immigration system but that
they would use "different language" to the Tories on the issue.

Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrat cabinet minister, said: "The message I give as
the Business Secretary is that, actually, people who come into the country
overwhelmingly make a positive contribution."

Lord Oakeshott, the Liberal Democrats' former Treasury spokesman, accused
Theresa May, the Home Secretary, of "pandering to Ukip" by forcing private
sector landlords to check the immigration status of their tenants.

Referring to Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, Ed Miliband warned Mr Cameron that
he would not be able to "out-Farage Farage". The Labour leader told the Commons
that yesterday's package was "a no-answers Queen's Speech from a tired and
failing government - out of touch, out of ideas, standing up for the wrong
people and unable to bring the change the country needs."

Mr Cameron described the immigration measures as the "centrepiece" of his
administration's plans as they "go right across government". He told MPs: "Put
simply, our Immigration Bill will back aspiration and end the legacy of the last
government, where people could come here and expect something for nothing."

He insisted that the Coalition was "rising to the challenge of preparing this
country for the future".

The Prime Minister said the Government was standing up for hard-working people
and those who want to get on making the country competitive so it could win the
global race.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The return of the Tories' obsession with Europe;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 620 words


Were it another Conservative grandee, even another former Chancellor, who was so
publicly setting out his intention to vote for Britain to leave the EU, then the
declaration might be a rather less incendiary one.

Lord Lawson, however, is both a genuine political heavyweight and one whose
history on Europe - voting "in" in 1975 and backing the Exchange Rate Mechanism
a decade later - is a far cry from the dyed-in-the-wool scepticism of the usual
suspects. Finally, there is his status within his party to consider: as the
budgetary plumber of high Thatcherism, Lord Lawson has huge influence,
particularly over the current crop of dissatisfied coalitionists.

What, though, of the substance of his claims? In fact, for all the recourse to
Keynes' overworked (if apocryphal) "when the facts change, I change my mind",
the former Chancellor's arguments are that familiar mix of anachronism and
wishful thinking which so often characterises the arguments of those who would
have Britain pull up the political drawbridge.

That is not to say that Europe does not need reform. From the yawning fiscal
flaws exposed by the euro crisis, to the woeful inefficiencies of many EU
institutions, to the widening disconnect between votes and power, the European
project is far from completed. As Lord Lawson rightly points out, bank
regulation is an especially vexed question for Britain.

But to conclude that "the case for exit is clear" is simplistic to the point of
absurdity; and the claim that the "modest" benefits of the single market could
easily be replaced is the finger-in-the-air economics of the soap-box
rabble-rouser, not a reasoned basis from which to reshape our political and
economic future.

It is easy to paint a Brussels-free Britain as a picture of Anglo-Saxon
enterprise, as a global super-trader no longer bound by red tape and the whims
of bureaucrats. But Europe accounts for perhaps three million British jobs,
nearly 60 per cent of exports and more than half of imports. The notion that
withdrawal would make little difference flies in the face of logic.

Meanwhile, much of the "red tape" would remain; and the myriad unquantifiable
benefits - from trade deals to geopolitical heft to shared security - would be
lost. A Britain outside the EU would not be liberated; it would be reduced. If
the substance of Lord Lawson's remarks is questionable, the politics are
potentially catastrophic - for the Tories in particular. David Cameron was
already in a bind over Europe. To head off sceptic rumblings from his back
benches, he promised not only to renegotiate Britain's position, but to hold an
in/out referendum after the next election. Although the scheme bought him barely
a moment's respite from his mutinous right wing, it at least pushed the decision
to beyond 2015.

Now, though, Lord Lawson has openly pooh-poohed the strategy, branding any
changes in the rules that Mr Cameron might secure as "inconsequential". Even
worse, the devastating dismissal came just days after the local elections. Never
mind that Ukip's mini-boom is more about immigration and the protest vote than
the EU; for Eurosceptics with an axe to grind, such distinctions matter little.

There are plenty of them. Perhaps a third of Tory MPs want out of Europe,
another third are undecided. The Prime Minister himself hopes to have us stay,
albeit on tweaked terms. But his room to manoeuvre is shrinking. In Europe, he
now talks of "reform" rather than "renegotiation", but EU policymakers grow
warier nonetheless and are less inclined to compromise.

Mr Cameron is attempting to ride two horses. Always a difficult trick to pull
off, Lord Lawson has made it inestimably harder. The fractious Tories are the
losers. Worse, so is Britain.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Tory Eurosceptics seize on Lawson's intervention to raise pressure on PM

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 649 words


David Cameron was under mounting pressure on Europe yesterday after the former
Chancellor, Lord Lawson, warned it would be "virtually impossible" to win a new
deal from the EU that would justify Britain's continued membership.

Jubilant Conservative Eurosceptics stepped up their demand for an early EU
referendum after Lord Lawson predicted the Prime Minister would fail to win a
significant "new settlement" from the UK's European partners.

The former Chancellor, who persuaded Margaret Thatcher to join the European
exchange rate mechanism against her Eurosceptic instincts, said he would now
vote to leave the EU in the referendum Mr Cameron has promised by 2017 because
exit would be "on balance good for the [UK] economy".

His intervention is a headache for Mr Cameron, who said in January that he
wanted Britain to remain in the EU and hoped to recommend a vote to stay in on
improved terms.

Calling the Prime Minister's Europe strategy into question, Lord Lawson told BBC
Radio 4: "I have a lot of friends within what I call the 'eurocracy' and they
all assure me that he will not be given any significant changes at all.

"It's the nature of the EU that there is only one way of travel, which is to
more and more powers to the centre, and they believe this sincerely??? They are
also afraid that if they give concessions to us, then there will be demands for
concessions from others and the whole thing will unravel."

Lord Lawson dismissed a warning by Nick Clegg that leaving the EU could cost
Britain three million jobs. "That's poppycock, but I don't think Nick Clegg,
who's a charming young man, has ever purported to know anything at all about
economics," he said.

The Deputy Prime Minister said: "I think we need to transform the EU to make it
more transparent more efficient, more democratic where we can, but not turn our
backs on it because doing so would make us less safe and less prosperous."

Asked if Lord Lawson's intervention had made it another "good day for Ukip", Mr
Cameron told a press conference: "It's been a good day for the pledge that I
have made, that if re-elected I will hold an in/out referendum so everybody can
have, not just a voice about Britain's future in Europe, but also can have a
vote about Britain's future in Europe."

Mr Cameron said the Conservatives were the only "major party" pledging to hold a
referendum on the UK's future, but defended the decision to hold a vote after
seeking a renegotiated settlement with Brussels. Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader,
said: "The world feels like a less lonely place. I think that somebody of Lord
Lawson's magnitude saying 'look this thing is gone and anyway Mr Cameron's
renegotiation is bound to fail' is a huge boost to the Eurosceptic cause in the
UK."

Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Tory backbencher, floated the idea of the Tories making a
"big, open and comprehensive" offer of coalition with Ukip, which could include
the post of Deputy Prime Minister for Mr Farage. Senior Tories have also
expressed discontent at the continued withdrawal of the whip from outspoken MP
Nadine Dorries, amid fears she could defect to Ukip.

Sir Gerald Howarth, a former defence minister, urged Mr Cameron to use today's
Queen's Speech to bring in legislation guaranteeing a referendum. "2017 is four,
five years away. We need to do something now. The public are not convinced he
will hold a referendum," he said.

But the Queen's Speech will not promise a referendum before the 2015 general
election because the Liberal Democrats have blocked the idea. Instead,
Conservative ministers may support a backbench Bill firming up the promise of a
post-2015 referendum, which would put Labour and the Liberal Democrats on the
spot.

In a joint statement, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg said the Queen's Speech would be
"about backing people who work hard and want to get on in life". They said: "Our
resolve to turn our country around has never been stronger."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Leaving the EU 'would be a clear disaster';
Trade Commissioner warns that pulling out would cost 'tens of thousands of jobs'

BYLINE: ROB HASTINGS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 562 words


Leaving the EU would be a "clear disaster" for Britain and put tens of thousands
of UK jobs at risk, the European Commissioner for Trade has warned. In a
strongly worded warning to David Cameron as the Prime Minister seeks to
renegotiate Britain's relationship with the European Union, Karel de Gucht said
it would be "madness" to quit the EU just as it is about to strike a major trade
deal with the US.

Speaking to The Independent, Mr De Gucht also made a direct attack on the
Westminster for its ignorance about the EU, warning that Britain needed to stop
blaming Brussels for the country's economic and social problems. "It's really
amazing how little a lot of British politicians know about Europe," the former
Belgian Foreign Minister said. "You need decision on the basis of facts and
figures and arguments, not on the basis of myths.

"Why don't people tell the truth about the EU?"

Mr De Gucht's strikingly combative remarks come as Mr Cameron is under pressure
from his own backbenchers to bring forward his plans for a referendum on EU
membership following Ukip's success in local elections last week. Issuing the
strongest comments yet from a senior EU official on the prospect of a British
exit, Mr De Gucht said that such an outcome "would be a real loss for the
European Union but for Great Britain itself it would be a clear disaster".

In his role as Trade Commissioner the Belgian politician is currently leading
negotiations for a landmark agreement to abolish all business tariffs between
the EU and the US.

Arguing that this would benefit every household of four by an average of £466 a
year and boost GDP by 0.5 per cent - and that a common language means Britain
stands to benefit the most - Mr De Gucht said: "It would be clear madness to get
out at this moment in time."

He added: "If this deal were to go about it would result in jobs in the hundreds
of thousands [across the EU], so we are giving you the best argument to stay in
the European Union by negotiating this deal with the United States," he said.
Tarrifs on imports and exports between the US and EU currently stand at an
average of 3 to 4 per cent, but it is hoped that a free-trade agreement could be
finalised within 18 months - with the Foreign Secretary, William Hague, recently
calling it "transformational" and a "top priority for the Government".

Richard Ottaway, the Tory chairman of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee, has
called it the "holy grail", saying: "We would look pretty dumb if we were
leaving the EU just as the EU was signing a free-trade agreement with the US."

Mr De Gucht said talk of rejecting the greater clout offered by membership of
the biggest trading bloc in the world was "a little bit cheap," asking: "Why
would you do it alone when you can do it together and get better results?

"You have problems with employment, with budget deficits, with fiscal policy. A
lot of the problems you are facing are homemade, they are not from Europe. You
are not going to resolve your crisis by engaging in a blame game. Everybody has
problems, but we are in a better position to solve them together.

"You have a central bank that has the kind of absolute authority and powers to
do whatever is needed to get out of an economic crisis and nevertheless they do
not manage to do so," he said. "Don't look for easy answers or easy questions
because they are not going to solve them."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

LORD LAWSON BACKS UK'S EXIT

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 129 words


The former Chancellor, Lord Lawson of Blaby, today calls for Britain to leave
the European Union. In a dramatic intervention into the Tory turmoil over
Europe, he argues that the gains from a British departure "would substantially
outweigh the costs". Lord Lawson, writing in The Times, says the EU has become a
"bureaucratic monstrosity" from which the UK should break free. He says: "The
case for exit is clear."

The Tory peer, who served as Baroness Thatcher's Chancellor for more than six
years, doubts David Cameron's ability to repatriate some powers from Brussels to
London ahead of a promised referendum on membership in 2017.

He says a European superstate "is certainly not for us" and adds: "That is why,
while I voted 'in' in 1975, I shall be voting 'out' in 2017."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Farage opens door to Tory pact but only if Cameron is ousted

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 523 words


Nigel Farage has opened the door to an electoral pact between his UK
Independence Party and the Conservatives - but said that Tory MPs would have to
oust David Cameron as their leader first.

Some Tory MPs, worried about Ukip's strong performance in last week's local
elections, called for a deal between the two parties at the 2015 general
election.

It could see Ukip stand aside in seats being fought by Eurosceptic Tories who
pledged to vote to leave the EU in the referendum Mr Cameron has promised by
2017.

The Tory leadership dismissed the idea of a pact and there is no sign of a move
by Tory MPs to trigger a vote of confidence in Mr Cameron's leadership. However,
that could happen if the party panicked after next year's European Parliament
elections, when Ukip is expected to come first.

Mr Farage told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show it was "not impossible" that Mr
Cameron would be ousted before the general election.

"If he was removed and somebody else was put in place and wanted to come and
talk to us and say 'shall we find an accommodation?' we'd consider it, but it is
not my priority," said Mr Farage,

Calls for a 2015 pact may grow if Conservative and Ukip councillors form "local
coalitions" after last week's elections to keep Labour and the Liberal Democrats
out of power in authorities where no party is in overall control.

Peter Bone, a Eurosceptic Tory MP, said Ukip's success made the case for an
alliance between the two parties that would see them fielding a joint candidate.
"There was a tremendous Conservative vote. There were the conservatives that
voted Conservative and the conservatives who voted Ukip. The trick is to get us
all together again and that's what we've got to do," he told Sky News.

Mr Cameron is under mounting pressure from Conservative MPs to harden his
referendum pledge. Tory ministers may support a backbench Bill to guarantee the
public a vote on Europe by 2017. A government Bill will not be included in the
Queen's Speech on Wednesday because the Lib Dems will not allow it.

But a Tory MP is expected to bring in a Private Member's Bill and Mr Cameron
could back that as a way of putting pressure on Labour and the Lib Dems, who
both oppose a referendum.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said yesterday that the Conservatives
"will be considering the options" on a referendum. They include two referendums
- one before the 2015 election to give Mr Cameron a mandate as he negotiates a
"new settlement" with the EU-and another by 2017 on whether to stay in or leave
the Union.

David Davis, the former Europe Minister, is leading calls by 20 Tory MPs for a
"mandate referendum".

Although the Lib Dems and Labour could block the move, Mr Davis said: "It would
be very interesting for the Liberals - and indeed the Labour Party - to vote
against giving the public a say on this matter. I think the politics of that for
them are very difficult."

Grant Shapps, the Tory chairman, said his party would publish a draft referendum
Bill before the 2015 election.

" Of course, we may challenge other parties to support it. If we can get people
to support it, then it can come before the Parliament," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 6, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Miliband 'must do better in South to win election';
Former Blair adviser issues warning to Labour after party's gains are put in
shade by Ukip victories

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 550 words


Ed Miliband has been warned Labour is not doing well enough in the South of
England to be confident of winning an overall majority at the 2015 general
election.

Although Labour made some gains in the South in last Thursday's council
elections, these were eclipsed by the dramatic advance by Ukip, undermining Mr
Miliband's rebranding of his party as "One Nation Labour." Nigel Farage's party
won more seats than Labour in areas such as Kent and Essex, which include
several key marginal seats Labour needs to win to regain power in 2015. Patrick
Diamond, a senior adviser to both Tony Blair and Gordon Brown when they were
prime ministers, warned Labour's performance last week was "patchy" and
"underwhelming".

Writing in The Independent today, he says: "Labour is still not doing well
enough to be confident of victory. If the party is to win the next election, it
has to do much better in southern England."

Labour's spell in the political wilderness between 1979 and 1997 was blamed
partly on what was dubbed the party's "southern discomfort", which was relieved
when Mr Blair broadened Labour's appeal beyond its traditional supporters. Mr
Diamond says Mr Miliband is right to argue the public have moved on from New
Labour. But, after last week's breakthrough by Ukip, he warns the Labour leader
would be wrong to think people have shifted to the left.

"People no longer see policy issues in conventional left/right terms," says Mr
Diamond. "Indeed, they are increasingly uncomfortable with the false choices
implied by what passes for political debate at Westminster."

Mr Diamond says: "The lesson of history is that Labour triumphs when, as in
1945, 1964 and 1997, it is seen as a party capable of uniting a broad spectrum
of constituencies and classes. This means reaching out beyond narrow, partisan
and tribal lines, demonstrating that Labour is a national party capable of
governing in the national interest."

He adds: "Winning voters' trust to manage the economy competently, spend
responsibly and tax fairly need not be achieved at the expense of improving
conditions for those most in need, tackling inequalities of income and wealth.
Labour must be a party capable of offering a hand up to those who want to get
on, as well as a helping hand to those in trouble."

Labour insists it is fighting back in its target constituencies in the South -
winning seven out of eight council seats in Hastings and three out of four in
Harlow. It gained 12 seats in Hertfordshire, where Ukip gained none.

Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, told The Independent that Mr Miliband is
making progress in the South, admitting this is necessary both politically and
electorally. "If you purport to lead the country, you have to lead the whole of
the country, not just pile up votes in sections of it to get yourself into No
10," she said. "The progress is very encouraging, but we have further to go. We
are building from a low base, or no base, in some areas."

After Ukip's success, Mr Miliband may come under pressure to drop his opposition
to an EU referendum. But Ms Harman said: "We need to look at their voters and
issues of concern, and to inspire their confidence - not just look at Ukip's
policies and adjust ours." Research by Ipsos Mori suggests Ukip is strongest in
the South, South-east and Midlands.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Ukip's success should worry Mr Miliband, too;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 620 words


From its second place in the South Shields by-election to the swathe it cut
through the county councils of England, the UK Independence Party can
justifiably claim to be living its finest hour. Nigel Farage says his party is
now a force in the land. For how long, and with what impact, however, are
questions that as yet have no answer.

The rapid rise of Ukip can be explained, in part, by the way it has supplanted
the Liberal Democrats and the Greens as a repository for the protest vote - the
Liberal Democrats suffering the penalty for being in government. It owes much,
too, to Mr Farage's sunny personality. To reduce its appeal to a combination of
popular disenchantment with the Coalition and Labour's failure to impress,
however, would be to oversimplify.

The time to dismiss Mr Farage and his party as "clowns" and "loonies" is past.
They have tapped into two big, and not unconnected, sources of popular
dissatisfaction: the European Union and immigration. The lifting of restrictions
on the right of Bulgarians and Romanians to work in the UK, from the start of
next year, adds a topical frisson. With the Conservatives and Labour tiptoeing
around both issues, and neither party bold enough - or frightened enough - to
take the argument to Ukip, Mr Farage had a relatively smooth campaign so far as
the politics went. It was with some of its minor personalities that he ran into
trouble, but the party still captured seats far beyond its presumed heartland in
the southern shires.

Ukip's success sets its own challenges: how far, if at all, will it be able to
turn itself into a proper party from the one-man band that it currently is, and
how well will its new councillors acquit themselves? If the far-right BNP sets
any kind of precedent for what happens when a narrowly focused party wins seats
on local councils, it offers little comfort to Ukip. For all the alarm that
surrounded the BNP's first electoral victories, the BNP has just lost its last
remaining council seat. Ukip councillors could face very similar problems
translating their words into actions. In local politics, the party could well
turn out to be a one-term wonder.

With the general election now only two years away, however, this is not a
scenario that is of much use to the mainstream parties. The chief losers in
Thursday's elections - though not by quite as much as projected - were the
Conservatives, not least because they had been the big winners in the equivalent
elections four years before. The Prime Minister's more hawkish noises on
immigration and his promise of an "in/out" referendum on EU membership,
conditional on the Conservatives winning in 2015, were clearly not enough to
convince disillusioned Tories. So he has now to choose whether to tack further
to the right - to try to recover ground from Ukip - or to stick with something
like the present course for fear of losing the crucial centre ground.

At least, it might be said, David Cameron has a choice. While Labour made net
gains in these elections, it did not benefit as much as it had hoped from the
Conservative defections to Ukip. This was partly because Ukip's anti-EU,
anti-migrant stance seems to have attracted some Labour voters, too. Still more
worrying for Ed Miliband, however, should be the party's continuing failure to
make any real electoral breakthrough since he took over.

At a time when the Government is beleaguered and divided on many issues, when
economic growth is proving stubbornly elusive, and the argument - nationally and
internationally - on austerity seems to be shifting, Labour ought to be making
serious inroads into the Tory vote. That the running is being made instead by
Ukip leaves Mr Miliband facing the question: if not now, when?

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Time for us to team up with the Germans after their fallout with France?;
JAMES ASHTON'S WEEK

BYLINE: JAMES ASHTON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 846 words


Europe's grand alliance of France and Germany is crumbling like a fresh chèvre.
The leaked memo from Angela Merkel's coalition partners this week only confirmed
what everyone else suspects about the French economy under the stewardship of
François Hollande.

"French industry is increasingly losing its competitiveness," it said. "The
relocation of companies abroad continues. Profitability is meagre."

After her close bond with Nicolas Sarkozy, Ms Merkel's relationship with Mr
Hollande was always going to be strained. But what price the eurozone if its two
biggest proponents can't get on over key issues such as austerity and how to
tackle falling growth?

Mr Hollande's plan to cut capital gains taxes smacks of desperation. I doubt he
will win back the entrepreneurs and wealthy workers who have already booked
their Eurostar tickets to London. Business leaders reckon France's economy is in
for a torrid decade.

It also begs the question what role Britain could play if the old order is
changing. Fresh from the incursions made into Tory territory by the UK
Independence Party, how David Cameron frames his in-out referendum on Britain's
future in Europe will be focusing the mind.

But what about a new Europe built around a UK-German axis, where the single
currency is optional but measures to foster economic growth are not?

In lieu of all those trade missions to China and Brazil stirring export orders,
better to be inside the tent with our existing major trading partners. That way
the Government might not have to resort to rearguard actions as it is by
attempting to fight off the financial transactions tax that those inside the
eurozone are gradually realising is bad for business.

Here's the way to hand real power to women

Sir Roger Carr was back beating the drum for greater diversity at the top of
British companies at an Ernst & Young reception on Tuesday night. The CBI
president and Centrica chairman flagged up research from McKinsey that showed
attrition rates for men and women as they climb the greasy pole are similar at
all levels - only the promotion rates are very different.

In fact, men are 10 times more likely to make partner in a law firm and three
times as likely in the accountancy world - suggesting that ambitious female
lawyers should divert their efforts into bean-counting if they want to get on.

The worry is that the pace of recruitment of women into the boardroom is
slowing. It is not something I'm overly concerned by. Restocking boards needs a
good supply, and it's only natural that the best sort of pipelines take a long
time to stock.

Better if the debate focused less on expanding the army of female non-executive
directors and more on putting women - and other minorities in the business world
- into the full-time management roles where the real power is wielded.

Let's see Parker pack his bags and go postal

Tim Parker tried to convince me he was staying put when he breezed into my
office this week, but I still suspect it won't be long before the private equity
world's favourite boss has found something new to occupy his mind. Mr Parker has
cut a swathe through the Automobile Association, Kwik-Fit and shoemaker Clarks
in a career that pleased backers but angered trade unions. His latest berth,
leading luggage maker Samsonite, has proved to be his most lucrative, creating a
stake worth £90m on top of the £30m he took out when the business floated in
Hong Kong two years ago. There is bags of growth left, as he put it.

Closer to home, business minister Michael Fallon fired the starting gun on the
privatisation of the Royal Mail. Politicians would prefer a "Tell Sid" style
flotation, but private equity may also have a sniff. Last time around, CVC, the
firm to which Mr Parker is closest, was very interested. If it bid again, it
might call on an old friend to get the rambunctious postal workers in order.

The laid-back Prince of Darkness goes postal? Now that is something I would pay
to see.

Consultants upbeat as they spy green shoots

Management consultants regard themselves as a canary down a mine shaft for the
economy because when companies want to start spending, they'll call in the
experts first.

If they are to be believed, green shoots will be sprouting soon. Clients in a
range of industry sectors are exploring entering new markets and product
innovation, they say - all good signs of improving confidence.

The old advertising adage is more appropriate when applied to consultancy: half
the money spent on it is wasted - the trouble is clients don't know which half.

But that hasn't stopped spending haring away, especially for the Big Four
accountancy firms, which have grown back consulting arms after most of them were
jettisoned following the Enron scandal that hobbled Arthur Andersen.
PricewaterhouseCoopers' pursuit of the German consultancy Roland Berger will up
the ante further.

There is plenty of business to spread around. Some consultants report that even
the Government is spending more with them. Don't tell Francis Maude, the Cabinet
Office minister who was meant to be clamping down on this sort of stuff.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Tories in civil war as Ukip glory puts PM under pressure

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 786 words


David Cameron was under conflicting pressures from the Conservative right and
left last night after the UK Independence Party sent shockwaves through the
political system by winning a quarter of the votes in the council elections.

The Prime Minister was urged to toughen the Tories' stance on immigration,
Europe and welfare to head off a Ukip advance that could deny his party victory
at the 2015 general election. But Tory modernisers warned that such a move would
alienate centre ground voters by risking the return of its "nasty party" image.

Ukip was the undisputed winner in Thursday's elections in 35 local authorities
in England and Wales. Nigel Farage, its leader, claimed a "sea change in British
politics" after it dramatically gained 139 seats. The Tories were hit the
hardest, losing control of 10 authorities and making a net loss of 330
councillors. The Liberal Democrats lost more than 120 seats. Labour made 291
gains but was overshadowed by the Ukip advance.

A BBC projection of the national share of the vote put Labour on 29 per cent;
the Conservatives on 25 per cent, equalling their lowest in a local election;
Ukip on 23 per cent; the Lib Dems on 14 per cent, their worst showing in council
elections and other parties on nine per cent. It is the first time no party has
won more than a 30 per cent share, reflecting the voters' disenchantment with
the mainstream parties which Ukip has now exploited.

Ukip came a strong second in the South Shields parliamentary by-election caused
by the resignation of David Miliband, winning 24 per cent of the vote as Labour
retained its safe seat. The Lib Dems came a humiliating seventh and lost their
deposit.

A jubilant Mr Farage said: "We have been abused by everybody, the entire
establishment, and now they are shocked and stunned that we are getting over 25
per cent of the vote everywhere we stand across the country."

Mr Cameron, who once dismissed Ukip as "loonies, fruitcakes and closet racists,"
softened his language. "It is no good insulting a political party that people
have chosen to vote for. We need to show respect for people who have taken the
choice to support this party and we are going to work really hard to win them
back," he said. "More to help with the cost of living, more to turn the economy
round, more to get immigration down, to sort out the welfare system. They will
be our focus, they are our focus, but we have got to do more."

Tory Eurosceptics demanded immediate legislation to "lock in" the party to
holding an in/out referendum on the EU after the 2015 election, as Mr Cameron
has promised. John Baron, a Tory MP, said the party leadership must learn from
its "errors" in handling the Ukip threat. "Our commitment to an EU referendum
needs to be believable," he said.

John Redwood, the former Cabinet minister, said the results showed that voters,
like Conservative MPs, "want faster progress on the new relationship with the EU
".

But Bright Blue, a group which back Mr Cameron's modernising project, warned him
not to listen to the Tory right. Ryan Shorthouse, its director, said:
"Conservatives should not panic and react by trying to be more hardline than
UKIP on welfare, Europe and immigration. Instead, we should convince voters we
are the only party with enough experience, gravitas and compassion to be really
trusted - with the difficult and complex job of government, to sort out the
public finances, and with supporting the vulnerable and those struggling in
these challenging economic times".

Labour insisted it was "on course for victory" in 2015 after winning council
seats in its target constituencies, but analysts said its performance fell short
of that. Ed Miliband hailed "good gains" but admitted there was "more work to
do". He said: "These elections show many people have lost trust in David
Cameron's ability to change Britain. But our task is to win the trust of the
people we haven't yet persuaded that Labour can make the difference."

Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, said: "It is understandable why it is that
people might be attracted to the simple answers that the UK Independence Party
is offering to deal with this country's complex problems. But I do not think
they do have the answers to the dilemmas we face as a country. I believe that
the Liberal Democrats do."

Lib Dem officials said the party had done well in the areas where it has MPs.
But grassroots activists warned that could make it a "two-tier party" and said
MPs needed to "motivate and inspire" the whole party. Gareth Epps, co-chair of
the Social Liberal Forum, said: "Each step forward is matched by a step back,
and then there's South Shields. The need to set out a clear Lib Dem stall, most
of all on the economy, is now urgent."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

A fourth party - and another headache for Cameron;
INSIDE WESTMINSTER

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 683 words


Britain now has a four-party political system. It changed from a two-and-a-half
to a genuinely three-party system when the Liberal Democrats joined the
Conservatives in coalition in 2010. It seemed that three-party politics was here
to stay.

The UK Independence Party's stunning success when the local election results
were announced yesterday has thrown the three parties' preparations for 2015
into turmoil. Nigel Farage can no longer be dismissed as the joker in the pub.
He is suddenly the wild card that could turn British politics upside down.

True, there have been false dawns before. The Green Party broke through at the
1989 European elections, but its single-issue image allowed the mainstream
parties to give themselves a green spray-on. The Social Democratic Party (SDP)
almost broke the mould when it broke away from Labour in the early-1980s. But
there was only room for one centre party and it merged with the Liberals.

Ukip is different. Its breakthrough is the biggest shock to the political system
since the Second World War. Mr Farage's party hoovered up twice as many votes as
the Conservatives expected. It is too soon to say whether the anti-establishment
party will become a force in its own right or, like the Greens and the SDP, a
catalyst that sparks change in other parties.

Yesterday's advance gives it a strong platform for the European parliament
elections in June next year. Euro elections are fought under proportional
representation and Ukip now has every chance of coming top. That would certainly
spook the Conservatives.

The real challenge for Mr Farage will be how to do well in 2015 under the much
harsher first-past-the-post system. But even without winning a single
constituency, Ukip could still transform the general election, and Mr Farage
will have a strong claim to feature in the television debates between party
leaders.

Ukip will certainly influence the policies of the other parties. Labour may take
some comfort from today's split being on the right rather than on the
centre-left, which helped Margaret Thatcher win in 1983 and 1987 after the SDP
breakaway.

Labour may have to rethink its opposition to a Europe referendum. Mr Miliband is
reluctant to offer one in Labour's 2015 manifesto but Ukip's success will
strengthen the hand of those who want to consider such a move. Labour will need
to shrug off the label of being "the welfare party" to blunt Ukip's appeal to
working-class voters.

Mr Cameron is already under pressure to harden the Tory line on Europe,
immigration and welfare. I doubt that the EU was in many voters' minds when they
voted Ukip on Thursday. But immigration undoubtedly was. "This is not about
Europe, it's about immigration," one Tory minister said yesterday.

If the Prime Minister veers right, it could cause immense strain inside the
Coalition. Relations between the Tories and Liberal Democrats are already
scratchy and the Ukip tide could speed up the inevitable divergence of the two
coalition parties before 2015.

It won't be easy for Mr Cameron to woo defectors back to the Tories. Since
January, he has been trying to prevent a haemorrhage to Ukip - for example, by
promising an in/out referendum on Europe by 2017. Mr Cameron may have less room
for manoeuvre than he wishes. If he tries to push policy to the right, a
push-back from the Liberal Democrats could create another omnishambles. Mr
Cameron's January speech on Europe sounded tough but, to ensure the UK has some
influence with our EU partners as he seeks a "new settlement", he said he hoped
to recommend a vote for continued EU membership in the referendum. "A lot of
people want out," said one Eurosceptic Tory MP. "People know Cameron wants to
stay in. Ukip will highlight that."

Mr Cameron will be under huge pressure to tack right, to prevent Ukip depriving
the Tories of victory in key marginals in 2015. But if he does, he could
alienate the centre-ground voters he will need for victory. He didn't fail to
win a majority in 2010 because he was not right-wing enough. As one Cabinet
minister said: "Our problem isn't David Cameron - it's the Tory brand."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 1, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Di Canio? He's a bit right-wing for me: Farage outflanked by Sunderland boss;
DONALD MACINTYRE'S SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 813 words


Pensioner Angela Hay was in shock. She had been sitting on a bench in South
Shields' King Street, enjoying the sunshine, when Nigel Farage and Ukip's
parliamentary by-election candidate Richard Elvin, along with assorted TV crews,
descended on her. Gamely rising to the challenge, she told the Ukip leader: "I
don't know what your name is but I recognise your face." When Mr Farage
mentioned, as he is wont to do, that Britain should unleash itself from the grip
of Brussels, and the candidate asked her if she would be voting for the party,
Ms Hay, 70, nodded encouragingly, only confiding later that while she liked the
Ukip leader's face and manner: "I'm tempted but I'm not 100 per cent sure. You
can't say that while they're there can you?" More concerned that she might have
made her first television appearance, she added "At least I was wearing a clean
jumper."

Ms Hay was one of the relatively few voters the Ukip leader met on his walkabout
yesterday. He is - at least in South Shields - in that intermediate state of
celebrity in which his every step is dogged by the media but in which the public
is only beginning to grasp how pivotal he may prove to be. That said he was
warmly greeted by half a dozen passers-by as he made his way to The Stag's Head
for what has already become the standard pub visit of any Farage tour, one in
which the photographers crowded along the publican's side of the bar to catch
him with his trademark pint.

One of his lieutenants candidly explained that he had asked the landlord to move
a sign declaring "Beer: Helping ugly people have sex since 1862". Even for a man
who makes as much of his own political incorrectness as Mr Farage that would
have been the wrong pictorial backdrop two days before elections.

But while Mr Farage may not like Europe - or at least the EU - Europe seems
increasingly to be warming to him. Paradoxically he had triggered an
unprecedented invasion of South Shields from France (Le Monde) and TV and radio
reporters from Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, the last of whom he
congratulated lavishly on his country's trading success outside the EU. "You're
in a much better position than we are," he assured Swiss listeners. And he
repeated at every opportunity his contention that the British political class"
was made up of people who had not "had real jobs". Which puts them, come to
think of it, in the same category though through no fault of their own as quite
a lot of South Shields voters.

Otherwise this had all the trappings of a crucial by-election, including the
presence of Channel 4's redoubtable Michael Crick who gallantly harried Mr
Farage on the exposure of his more extremist candidates - and whether the party
supported Mussolini-admirer Paolo Di Canio as the manager of nearby Sunderland
FC.

Here he proved himself more statesmanlike than his candidate - who seemed
enthusiastic about the appointment - suggesting that if he had been a club
director he might not have approved the appointment but that he was a cricket
rather than a football man and, anyway, "it is a matter for Sunderland".

Ukip appear confident they are on a roll in this by election caused by the final
departure from Parliament of David Miliband. But Mr Farage insists that he does
not expect victory - only to come second, which itself would be a big advance
into Labour heartlands. The ex-MP's brother Ed will certainly be hoping he is
right. Actual defeat for Labour -which the bookies and pundits see as well nigh
impossible - would seem like nemesis on an operatic scale.

SELLING POINTS

UKIP'S MANIFESTO

End subsidies to "renewable energy scams" such as wind turbines and solar farms.

Put all big local planning applications - including out-of-town supermarkets and
housing developments - to a vote of local people in referendums.

Impose a five-year freeze on permanent immigration to the UK.

Cut hundreds of thousands of civil service jobs to reduce the public sector to
1997 levels.

Require those coming to the UK on holiday or business to prove they have health
insurance.

Introduce a "Britdisc" that foreign lorries will have to pay for to use British
roads.

Withdraw from the Common Fisheries Policy and establish an "Exclusive Economic
Zone", extending 200 nautical miles from the UK's coastline, to prevent foreign
fishing.

Double prison places and enforce zero tolerance on crime - as well as repealing
the Human Rights Act to "end abuses by convicted criminals and illegal
immigrants".

End the ban on smoking in allocated rooms in pubs, clubs and hotels.

Invest in three new 200mph-plus high-speed rail lines from London to Newcastle,
London to Bristol and Bristol to Birmingham. Local communities would have a veto
on the lines running through their area.

Give the public "health care vouchers" so they can opt out of the NHS.

Disband the Ministry of Defence and cancel the Trident nuclear submarine
replacement programme.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

The politics of protest can only take you so far;
Ukip

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 894 words


Network Rail maintenance engineer Frank McKenna isn't a fruitcake. He's
convincing when he says he has no time for the racist BNP. He was born in County
Antrim - his father was a republican - and he lived for 28 years in Australia,
where he was an activist in the socially liberal third party Democrats. And
apart from his apocalyptic view of the threat to member state sovereignty posed
by the EU's Lisbon Treaty, and the - to him - infuriating shenanigans which led
the Irish public to reverse its original 2008 No vote and which brought him into
Ukip, it would be hard to guess at first sight which party he supported.

His candidacy for a seat on Kent County Council illustrates one of the reasons
for Ukip's reaching the point where it can come second in the Eastleigh
by-election and Professor John Curtice, of Strathclyde University, can say it
"now threatens to pose the most serious independent fourth party incursion in
English electoral politics in the post-war period". Unlike its toxic
predecessors to the right of the mainstream parties - including the BNP - the
respectability of candidates like McKenna has ensured that it has not been
socially embarrassing to declare, let alone vote, for it.

Until now. Nigel Farage's defence against the increasing evidence that in parts
of the country his party has been less than fastidious about the credentials of
its candidates - including a few homophobes and not-so-closet racists - has been
unconvincing. He complains of "a smear campaign" as if trawling through the
social media utterances of candidates for public office was somehow
illegitimate. And he says that the party does not have the "resources" to vet
all 1,700 candidates for Thursday's elections. Well, one answer might be not to
run so many candidates until you know who they are.

Alarmed though some Ukip activists may be at Ken Clarke's robust weekend attack,
they will nevertheless comfort themselves with Farage's mantra that it's when
you're succeeding that you get denounced. And certainly Ukip is likely to be the
story on Thursday. For all Labour's outward relaxation, some of its senior
figures are increasingly nervous that it too could lose white working-class
votes to the party. But the main argument that Ukip has triggered is with the
Conservatives. So what is the nature of the threat? Has Ukip merely replaced the
Lib Dems - locked in as they are to the Coalition, as the main repository of
protest votes by disaffected Tories? Or has economic slump caused the
unprecedented electoral volatility visible elsewhere in Europe?

This isn't largely about policy. Farage attacks David Cameron as a "social
democrat", which contrives - baselessly - to insult both the Prime Minister and
social democrats. And he has an easy answer to the "29 million" Bulgarians and
Romanians who the party's leaflets luridly warn will be entitled to come to the
UK from 2014, which is to get out of the EU. But it's only thanks to an EU
referendum pledge by Cameron that Ukip has any chance of bringing this about.
And Farage's effort to create a national platform beyond this is, to put it
politely, a work in progress.

Certainly a sniff at the opinion of those considering voting for Mr McKenna in
Folkestone on Sunday morning reinforces Lord Ashcroft's observation, from his
own polling in Eastleigh, that rather than being driven by Ukip "principle",
more than four in five of Ukip voters "were protesting about something". Indeed,
some seemed to be moving towards Ukip despite, rather than because of, its
policies. Malcolm Arnold, 58, much more of an admirer of Margaret Thatcher than
of David Cameron, was worried about Europe but didn't want to pull out
altogether. He admitted he might vote Ukip this week as a "protest", but would
be much less likely to do so in 2015 "because it would let Labour in". Pat, 72,
would definitely vote Ukip because as a local Samaritan she didn't like what
welfare changes - however necessary - were doing to "low income groups". She
didn't seem to have considered voting Labour, and didn't know how she would vote
in a general election.

Clarke is right that Ukip is much clearer about what it is against - whether
it's HS2 or wind farms or, in Kent, the extension of Lydd airport - than what it
is for. And the argument among Conservatives about how to deal with Ukip may say
most about their own party. Insofar as Ukip represents a breakaway from
Conservatism, Cameron has been less able to prevent it than Thatcher (while in
office) was. But those Tory MPs who argue that the answer is not to attack Ukip,
as Clarke has, but to pursue more right-wing policies - especially on Europe -
are sometimes using the fourth party as leverage to advance their own
ideological goals, helped, of course, by those MPs who genuinely fear losing
their seats to Ukip.

Those fears aren't crazy. Curtice points out that even if Ukip's vote share
recedes to, say, "only" 5 per cent after its now likely triumph in next year's
European elections, that could still cost Cameron some 10 parliamentary seats -
which he could do without given the already uphill struggle the party faces as a
result of the postponement of boundary changes. That said, however well Ukip
does on Thursday, it will have its work cut out to become, as Farage wants, a
"mainstream" party rather than an inchoate, if potent, vehicle of protest and
disaffection.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 29, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

An election fraught with risk for Cameron;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 625 words


It is set to be a difficult week for the Prime Minister. There may be little
doubt that the Conservatives will win the majority of the near-2,400 council
seats up for grabs in Thursday's local elections. But that alone will not be
enough to take the heat off David Cameron. Even with an overall majority, his
party is set for a mauling; and the usual clichés about mid-term blues are
unlikely to calm the ire of his increasingly recalcitrant backbenchers.

In part, the Prime Minister's difficulties are a simple matter of role-reversal.
When this week's councils were last put to the vote, four years ago, Mr Cameron
was opposing a Gordon Brown-led government at its nadir. Now, he is at the head
of a coalition imposing painful cuts and struggling to jump-start a relentlessly
torpid economy. But all that could be rationalised. It is the spectacular rise
of the UK Independence Party - fielding three times as many candidates as in
2009, and with hopes of much-improved success - that is the real headache.

As the Eastleigh by-election in February showed, Ukip's growing popularity is
not confined to abstract polling. By positioning itself as the
tell-it-like-it-is, anti-politics party, and by focusing on key Conservative
concerns from immigration to Europe to gay marriage, Ukip leapfrogged the Tories
to take second place. Neither is there any question that it will substantially
increase its share of the vote in this week's ballot. Most psephologists predict
Nigel Farage's motley band will move into double figures for the first time,
picking up another 40-odd seats in the process. Not sufficient to make a
difference on the ground, perhaps; but more than enough to tilt the national
rankings.

With the focus on Tory issues and Tory seats, Mr Cameron will be the loser. And
this weekend's war of words - with Ukip accusing the Tories of "dirty tricks"
and Ken Clarke dismissing Ukip as "a collection of clowns" - gives a hint of the
scale of the threat.

The Prime Min-ister is not the only one under pressure. Nick Clegg will be
hoping the Liberal Democrats manage their usual feat of outperforming dire
national ratings in local contests. But it is conceivable that Ukip will beat
them into fourth; and, even if they cling on, unless the catastrophic
post-Coalition losses are clearly slowing, it will be a tough blow for the
Government's beleaguered junior partner.

For the time being, though, Mr Clegg's leadership is safe - thanks to the
Liberal Democrat win in Eastleigh. The same cannot be said of Mr Cameron.
Indeed, if the Tories lose more than a third of their 2009 gains, then the rosy
glow of unity inspired by Margaret Thatcher's death will swiftly evaporate and
the corridors of Westminster will be fraught with sedition and conspiracy once
more.

To depose Mr Cameron, or even attempt to do so, would be an act of unmitigated
folly. Such destructive divisions would be electoral suicide, putting the 2015
majority that the rebels doubt Mr Cameron can muster even further out of reach.
Political parties do not always act rationally, however, and much soul-searching
can be expected to follow Thursday's vote.

The temptation will be to lurch to the right. Yet concessions already made - the
promise of an EU referendum, say - bought the Prime Minister barely a moment's
breathing space, and further indulgences are no more likely to permanently win
the mutinous round. Nor does the problem end with the fallout from the local
elections. In fact, this week's battle is just a prelude to next year's far more
politically significant European Parliament vote - in which Ukip has high hopes
of coming first and pushing the Tories into third behind Labour. The fight for
the right, and for Mr Cameron's political life, is only just beginning.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 27, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The Croatians who want to stop golf's Great White Shark eating their coastline

BYLINE: VESNA PERIC ZIMONJIC in Belgrade

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 520 words


The last time Croatians voted in a referendum it was to decide whether - 21
years after the country broke away from Yugoslavia and declared independence -
it should join the European Union.

The consequences of another vote tomorrow in one part of the country may not be
as far reaching, but for the residents of the coastal town of Dubrovnik, it is
just as important.

They are about to have their say on a controversial building development
comprising two golf courses, villas and a hotel that will be built on top of a
forest-covered hill named Srdj overlooking the town, which is a Unesco World
Heritage site. The Australian golfer Greg Norman - who gained the nickname the
Great White Shark for his aggressive playing style - is among the investors in
the project. The former world No 1, right, reportedly was involved in the design
process for the two courses, and the site will host a Greg Norman Golf Academy
if it goes ahead.

Irregular and erratic construction along the Adriatic coast has devastated some
of Croatia's most beautiful spots, with investment in tourism trumping the
concerns of residents and those concerned with protecting the character of its
old towns. But the golf courses in Dubrovnik appear to be one development too
far, and residents of the city known as the "Pearl of the Adriatic" want it to
stop.

"We are not against the golf as a sport," Djuro Capor, from the campaign group
"Srdj je nas" (Srdj is Ours), told The Independent. "But, this is not about
golf; it's really about the uncontrolled real estate development we've already
witnessed for years on the coast," he said.

The Croatian economy relies heavily on tourism, which earns around £4.5bn every
year for the small nation.

Investors in the development at Srdj say the complex - which will include a
sports centre, a hotel, tennis courts, horse-riding club, several restaurants,
galleries, cycling and running tracks, bars and parks - will boost tourism and
bring visitors to the area.

But residents have complained that the area marked out for the development has
grown in the past few years from the originally approved 100 hectares to more
than 310. Activists allege corrupt local authorities gave the go-ahead for 268
villas and a complex of 1,600 apartments that were not agreed upon at the start.
They also took issue with damage to the forest and agricultural land upon which
the new complex will be built.

The fact that a referendum is even taking place is a sign for some that Croatia
is changing. "People have recognised the idea of taking fate into their own
hands" said Ivan Vidjen, a member of the Referendum Organisation Board. Igor
Miosic, another member of the board, said: "It's also a sign that things were
not right in the past 20 years and that democracy should go into people's
hands."

Dubrovnik has been a Unesco World Heritage site since 1979, due to its unique
architecture and cobbled streets. It suffered months of siege in 1991 during
Croatia's war for independence and heavy bombardment by the former Yugoslav
army. For the development to go ahead, more than half of Dubrovnik's 43,770
citizens need to say "yes".

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

An old empire is emerging from Europe's new alliances;
Diplomacy

BYLINE: MARY DEJEVSKY

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1006 words


You could probably date it from Margaret Thatcher's Bruges speech: the Great
British ambition to refashion the European Union after its own desires, as a
flexible grouping of sovereign states, rather than the "ever-closer Union"
enshrined in the Treaty of Rome. But when communism collapsed and the newly
independent states in the east sought EU membership, the UK saw its chance.

Expansion, of course, was a laudable project in itself, reflecting the optimism
and idealism of the times. But the enthusiasm of successive British prime
ministers concealed a hope that the addition of so many new members would dilute
the whole European enterprise - not least, so the thinking went, because nations
newly reborn would be reluctant to sacrifice even a fraction of the sovereignty
so hard won. Britain would gain friends to argue for a more loosely constituted
Europe.

And so, for about a decade, it was - to the barely disguised fury of, among
others, France. As the East and Central Europeans - enduringly dubbed the "new
Europeans" by the US Defence Secretary, Donald Rumsfeld - went through the hoops
necessary to join the EU, the British gained trusty allies for their Atlanticist
view of the world and for the European Union as a confection of fully
independent states. In this complex and evolving union, Britain's various
opt-outs and its absence from the single currency were less conspicuous. Its
"special relationship" with the US seemed less of an anomaly. The "new
Europeans" had also joined Nato. They were as keen as the UK on the protection
of the US defence umbrella.

All of which might give David Cameron the idea that, if all else fails, he can
rely on the "new Europeans" for support in his quest to reform the EU in time
for his promised In/Out referendum. If this is indeed part of his strategy,
however, he may have another think coming. Times have changed, and so have the
"new Europeans", who are doing their utmost to live down that increasingly
disliked label.

The speed and completeness of this change were clearly felt in the Slovak
capital, Bratislava, last weekend, at the annual international security
conference, Globsec, which provides a showcase for the so-called Visegrad group
of countries. The group, comprising the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, as
well as Slovakia, harks back to a 14th-century accord, and was formed in 1991 to
press for guarantees that Central Europe would be firmly fixed in the Western
bloc. Its efforts were crowned 13 years later, when all four countries joined
the European Union. In 2009, Slovakia became the last country to join the single
currency before the euro crisis struck.

For all the tentative efforts at regional cooperation that followed the end of
the Cold War, however, the 1990s were years of splitting, not coming together.
The biggest, most spectacular and most destabilising fragmentation was that of
the Soviet Union, which dissolved into its constituent republics. And there were
signs, at times, that the fragmentation could go further, with a brief challenge
to Moscow from the mainly Muslim region of Tatarstan and the increasingly brutal
Chechen wars.

Beyond the Soviet borders, Yugoslavia broke up, Slovenia leaving peacefully, but
the rest descending into civil war and, subsequently, dividing further. The
three Baltic States were pursuing their fortunes as separate nations even before
the final Soviet collapse, and within five years of throwing off communism,
Czechoslovakia split amicably in two, demonstrating that divorces can sometimes
be civilised.

With so much breaking up going on, it made perfect sense for these countries to
seek security in existing institutions, such as the European Union and Nato,
even as they delighted in their rediscovered nationhood. Nor was there any need
for them to banish old enmities. Small matter that Russia was a smaller, weaker,
more self-absorbed successor to the Soviet Union; it was still the menacing bear
to its former vassals, who brought their collective apprehension with them to
the European Union. It was an apprehension that Britain, but not all "old"
Europeans, was happy to share.

Two striking trends emerged from this year's gathering in Bratislava. The first
- swiftly grasped by a young Russian academic - was that the preoccupation with
Russia as the unifying enemy had receded. The notion of a Russian threat was not
gone completely, but the emphasis was on the need and potential for regional
cooperation within the EU and Nato. Russia was no longer the looming shadow of
yore.

The cue for a new, more realistic, less fearful, approach to Russia had been set
by the Polish foreign minister, Radek Sikorski, in a speech in Berlin at the end
of 2011. But the combination, perhaps, of other factors - the continuing
uncertainty in Europe because of the euro crisis, a growing sense that Europe
would have to look more to itself for security, given the US "pivot" to Asia
(now renamed "rebalancing"), and an increased understanding of the way internal
EU politics works through alliances - has fostered a new collaborative mood
among the Central Europeans, both between themselves and with the consensus in
the EU. This will not be of much help to Mr Cameron in the coming months.

A precondition of cooperation, however, is often the need to feel comfortable in
your own skin - which is the second, related, trend. Over the past two years, I
have visited each of the Visegrad countries, and the sense is of nations
rediscovering their identity and heritage, while anchoring themselves,
consciously or not, in the wider region. Sometimes, as with the - temporary, it
is to be hoped - nationalist lurch in Hungary, they go too far. But in
Bratislava, the sun shone. The restoration of the Baroque palaces is almost
complete, the pace of life is relaxed, people look cheerful, and I cannot
remember seeing more small children or pregnant women in one city centre.
Looking around, it was easy to believe that, culturally and politically,
Austro-Hungary is on its way back.

m.dejevsky@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 20, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Business must be willing to pay up if it wants to benefit from the arts;
JAMES ASHTON'S WEEK

BYLINE: JAMES ASHTON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 874 words


It was one of those nights which serve as a reminder of the closeness of
business and the arts. Tuesday evening saw the great and the good of the City at
the British Museum for a special viewing of the Pompeii and Herculaneum
exhibition.

Greenhill, the investment bank marking its first 15 years in Europe with the
event, welcomed everyone from Santander chairman Lord Burns to property veteran
Sir John Ritblat and banker-turned-headhunter Oliver Pawle. Incongrously, even
football pundit Alan Hansen was sipping the fizz.

It's a commonplace occurrence across the City, where the best networking takes
place while pretending to know something about the art on display.

Business looks good when it is aligned with high culture, and, financially,
museums and theatres need its backing - especially since corporate giving fell
off a cliff with the financial crisis five years ago and is showing scant signs
of recovery. With central government arts funding under pressure too, there is a
question mark over how many institutions can carry on.

The first contribution of Sir Peter Bazalgette to this debate as the new
chairman of Arts Council England was to call for a "grand partnership" of local
government and business philanthropy.

Those in London needn't worry. Most private arts money in this country flows
into the capital's largest institutions, such as the National Theatre, where
Travelex tycoon Lloyd Dorfman is paying £10m towards the £70m redevelopment of
the Cottesloe.

But outside the capital is a different story. There, private backing is scarce
and local businesses complain to the council when arts funding is pulled because
it affects the quality of life for staff they are trying to retain in the area.
They can't have it both ways if they aren't prepared to dip into their own
pockets. So how do you forge an alliance that runs deeper than the canape
circuit to benefit both sides?

Jenkins' Barclays vow looks unconvincing

Barclays this week joined forces with former Dragon Doug Richard's School for
Startups to support social entrepreneurs.

Five winners of a contest they are running will win a year's worth of "intensive
support" to grow their organisation plus a trip to a global forum in
Johannesburg for young leaders.

The bank also used the latest labour statistics and youth unemployment numbers
as an opportunity to remind the world about its LifeSkills programme, launched
last month. Its aim is to equip one million young people with the skills they
need to get jobs, as well as create 50,000 work experience placements alongside
McDonald's and Centrica.

It is all laudable stuff, and fits nicely with Barclays chief executive Antony
Jenkins' vision for the lender as an upstanding member of the community. But
projects such as these are largely redundant in swaying perceptions while the
self-satisfied grin of Rich Ricci dominates every newspaper.

The exit of Barclays' larger-than-life investment-banking chief was overdue, and
not just because of the Budget-day row that blew up over his £18m share award.
How Mr Jenkins thought he could reboot Barclays as a caring, sharing bank while
the tweed-wearing, racehorse-owning associate of Bob Diamond and emblem of all
that had gone before still sat around the executive meeting table is anyone's
guess.

His presence make a mockery of Mr Jenkins' sombre, five-word credo for the new
Barclays - respect, integrity, service, stewardship and excellence - which is
impossible to miss if you pay a visit to the bank's Canary Wharf headquarters.

No amount of breakfasting with charities, as Mr Jenkins did in February the day
after his relaunch, will convince people this company has moved on until the
personnel that got it into trouble in the first place have been moved on too.
The fact that Mr Jenkins didn't get that to begin with raises questions over how
complete this reworking of Barclays will be.

It is now 27 months since Mr Diamond told the Treasury Select Committee that the
time for remorse is over and the debate should move on from bankers' pay. He
called it early, to say the least.

Given the back-pedalling of the last few months, let's hope that Mr Jenkins
hasn't promised what he can't deliver.

Dame Marjorie breaks her silence

You could hear the sense of relief this week as Dame Marjorie Scardino took to
the stage to deliver a speech.

The former boss of Pearson, owner of the Financial Times, has kept her own
counsel on many issues of business and politics since 1997.

When she took the job, she resolved not to lean on the editorial line that the
Pink 'Un should take, unlike some newspaper proprietors. I imagine that can't
always have been easy. She was known for strong ideals earlier in her life,
campaigning for civil rights while at university in Texas.

Since she retired in January, and handed on the reins of what is now the world's
largest education group to John Fallon, Dame Marjorie has been free to speak her
mind.

So what did she say? Dame Marjorie believes British businesses will ultimately
come out in favour of the European Union in any referendum. And the EU needs
leaders in the mould of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln to lead it out of
its current crisis.

In the week that Margaret Thatcher was laid to rest, business leaders would echo
that.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Cameron brings the kids - but he's the black sheep in Merkel's EU family;
German Chancellor goes all out on the hospitality front to keep Britain sweet

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 503 words


Angela Merkel rolled out the red carpet for David Cameron last night, but
differences remained between the two leaders over whether the European Union
needs a "big bang" revision of its governing treaties.

The German Chancellor invited the Prime Minister, his wife, Samantha, and,
unusually, their three children for an overnight stay at her country residence
in Meseberg, outside Berlin. Ms Merkel was accompanied by her husband, Joachim
Sauer, who has only a handful of official engagements each year. Steffen
Seibert, her spokesman, could not recall the children of another leader being
invited previously. This weekend's gathering "demonstrates how tight our
friendship and partnership with Britain is", said Mr Seibert.

The warm reception was a clear signal that Ms Merkel, the most powerful player
on the European stage, wants Britain to remain in the EU, despite the alarm in
European capitals at Mr Cameron's promise to hold an in/out referendum by 2017.

After an informal dinner last night, the two leaders will hold talks this
morning on the EU, North Korea, Britain's agenda while it chairs the G8 nations
and Syria, on which Germany opposes calls by the UK and France to ease the arms
embargo to help rebels opposing the Assad regime.

The Prime Minister's EU timetable looks increasingly ambitious. There is little
appetite to rewrite the EU treaties to entrench reforms to the eurozone, on
which he is banking so he can table Britain's demands for the "new settlement"
to put to the people in his referendum.

Yesterday the German Government made clear its priority was speedy eurozone
reforms, if possible without a new treaty, to avoid the changes being delayed by
a long negotiation and the referendums required in some EU countries.

"We should make a judgement about whether a treaty is needed at the end of the
process, not at the beginning," one source told The Independent.

The process could take years. But Britain insists treaty change is inevitable.
There were signs at an informal meeting of EU finance ministers in Dublin
yesterday that Germany might see the need for a treaty on banking union, only
the first in a long line of possible eurozone reforms.

Mr Cameron is unlikely to regain the UK's opt-out from social chapter of
workers' rights, won by John Major but given up by the Blair government in 1997.
But he might secure changes to one element of it - the working time directive.

Yesterday Michael Meister, deputy parliamentary chairman of Ms Merkel's
Christian Democratic Union party, said Germany was "open for arguments" about
moving some powers back to member states. "We want to unify Europe and we have
to do it together. There are a lot of common ideas with the British side and the
German side," he told BBC Radio 4.

Douglas Alexander, the shadow Foreign Secretary, said: "Trapped by his rhetoric
and his backbenchers, David Cameron still risks sleepwalking Britain towards the
exit. The gap between what David Cameron can deliver and what his backbenchers
are demanding continues to widen."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 10, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The ghost of Thatcher will haunt Cameron until he shows he's a winner;
COMMENT

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words


When Margaret Thatcher began writing her memoirs after being booted out of
office by her party rather than the voters, her original title was "Undefeated"
before she opted for a more prosaic The Downing Street Years.

It would have been so much better for her successors as Conservative Party
leader if she had been defeated by the electorate. Her bitterness at being
pushed out by her own Cabinet in 1990 was understandable. The act of matricide
left deep scars that have still not healed today.

The manner of her departure gave her some legitimacy in seeking to influence
events under her successor Sir John Major. He proved a disappointment to her,
especially when Europe rose to the top of the agenda. Lady Thatcher's acolytes
made his life a misery by dripping poison, briefing against him and using his
shrinking Commons majority to hold him to ransom. She wasn't pulling all the
strings. But she didn't need to.

After choosing three Eurosceptic leaders, it took a third election defeat in
2005 before the Conservatives finally took a different track, opting for the
moderniser David Cameron. Although Lady Thatcher's portrait still hung in many
local Conservative associations around the country, the only Tory photograph in
Mr Cameron's office as Opposition Leader was one of Harold Macmillan, the One
Nation Tory Prime Minister.

Mr Cameron deliberately distanced himself from Lady Thatcher, much to the
irritation of her followers. For many non-Tory voters, she personified the
"nasty party" he promised to detoxify. He saw himself as the "heir to Blair".
While she said "there is no such thing as society", he argued: "There is such a
thing as society, it's just not the same thing as the state." His plan to
complement the Thatcher economic revolution with a social one was overtaken by
the 2008 financial crisis - and his "big society" mantra bombed at the 2010
election.

The resulting Coalition gave Mr Cameron a comfortable Commons majority, so he
was not dependent on a hardcore of Eurosceptic trouble-makers.

Yet the Prime Minister is still stalked by the ghost of Lady Thatcher. The large
band of 148 new Tory MPs elected in 2010 are very much "Thatcher's children",
reflecting the ageing, traditionalist electorate in local parties. The MPs are
an impressive, hyperactive bunch, forming influential groups such as Free
Enterprise, which lobbies for tax cuts for business, and Fresh Start, which drew
up a long shopping list of powers to be reclaimed from the EU.

No leader could afford to ignore half his parliamentary party and Mr Cameron has
had to tack in a Thatcherite direction. Talking about the "common ground" as
Prime Minister rather than the "centre ground", where he pitched his tent in
opposition, may not look very different. But the "common ground" featured in
Lady Thatcher's speeches and was coined by her intellectual guru Sir Keith
Joseph, so Mr Cameron sends a big signal to his party by adopting it.

Yet that, and his promise of an in/out referendum on Europe, have not stopped
Thatcherites plotting against a man they cannot forgive for not winning a
majority in 2010. "We could do with another one like her right now," announced
Lord Tebbit after Lady Thatcher's death.

Yesterday Paul Goodman, executive editor of the ConservativeHome website, said
of Mr Cameron: "He is dwarfed by her giant shadow. This would be true of any
imaginable Conservative leader. But it is accentuated by a single fact. She won
three elections. He hasn't - yet - won one."

Mr Cameron may have replaced the Tories' burning torch logo with a tree. But as
those new Tory MPs line up to praise Lady Thatcher in the Commons today, he will
be reminded that the Thatcherite flame will continue to burn strongly in his
party.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              April 8, 2013 Monday
                                 Second Edition

Cameron warns support for EU is 'wafer-thin'

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 401 words


Support within Britain for membership of the European Union has become
"wafer-thin", David Cameron warned the leaders of France and Germany before
talks this week in Paris and Berlin.

The French President, François Hollande, and the German Chancellor, Angela
Merkel, have cast doubt on his call for a fresh treaty to set the EU's future
direction in the face of pressure from Eurosceptic MPs.

The Prime Minister has promised to stage an in-out referendum by the end of 2017
if the Tories win the next election. Under his plan, the vote would be held on a
new EU treaty under which Britain had repatriated some powers from Brussels.

However, his proposals have received a muted response from other European
governments more preoccupied with dealing with the eurozone crisis.

Mr Cameron will attempt to win support for his stance during talks in Madrid
with the Spanish Prime Minister, Mariano Rajoy, today before travelling to Paris
for a working dinner with Mr Hollande. He will meet Ms Merkel later this week.

In interviews ahead of his meetings, he said he was sure there would have to be
a treaty change. He said three treaties had been put forward since he became
Prime Minister. "I'm absolutely convinced that there will be the need to reopen
at some stage these treaties, not least to solve the problem of the eurozone,"
he said.

"We are a major European power, a major European player. But do we think that
the European Union has sometimes overreached itself with directives and
interventions and interferences? Yes, it has. And that needs to change."

Mr Cameron said he believed that the best outcome would be for Britain to remain
in a reformed EU, but warned that feelings were running high on the subject.

"We need to recognise that consent for Britain's membership of the European
Union, and all the ways that it's changed, has become wafer-thin in Britain. And
politicians, if they do their job properly, have to recognise this fact.

"The agenda of the speech is change that all of Europe can benefit from. It is a
more competitive, open, flexible Europe for all countries of Europe. This is not
about cherry-picking, but to argue as some do that you can't have a flexible
Europe is wrong. We have a flexible Europe.

"Britain is not in the single currency; neither are many other countries. Not
all of us are members of Schengen... we don't all have to do the same things in
the same way at the same time."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

MPs urge Cameron to speed up EU vote

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 225 words


More than 100 Conservative MPs challenged David Cameron yesterday to accelerate
his promise to hold a referendum on loosening Britain's ties with the European
Union.

The Prime Minister is facing an ominous new rebellion less than three months
after winning backbench plaudits for his pledge to hold a referendum on the UK's
membership if he wins the next general election in 2015. Eurosceptic MPs are now
pressing him to bring in legislation before the election to pave the way to the
vote on the EU.

A letter calling on him to support the move and requesting a meeting was
delivered to Downing Street by the Basildon and Billericay MP, John Baron. He
said: "It is a strongly worded letter but it is congratulatory of the Prime
Minister. The referendum promise had to be credible and believable - we got
credible because the referendum has an 'out' option. That box has been ticked
but we also need it to be believable... manifesto promises are not believable
enough."

He added: "There would be no downside in trying to pass this legislation. If it
were voted down, it would be abundantly clear which politicians are with the
public in their wish for a referendum. This issue has been subject to cynical
politics for too long.

He said that "a number" of Government members had privately expressed sympathy
with the idea, but had not been approached to sign.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 30, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Can the banks have their cake and lend it out too? Something's got to give;
ANTHONY HILTON'S WEEK

BYLINE: ANTHONY HILTON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 833 words


I have no problem with the Bank of England being in charge of monetary policy
and having the responsibility to help deliver stable prices and economic growth.
Separately I have no problem with the Bank of England having overall
responsibility for the stability of the financial system. The problem is whether
it is possible for the Bank to do both at the same time.

There is nothing new in this observation - it was at the core of objections to
George Osborne's knee-jerk decision when he came to office to break up the
Financial Services Authority and return responsibility for banking supervision
to the Bank - a decision which comes into effect this weekend. But developments
this week put it into sharp focus.

For some months now we have seen the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank come
up with various devices to encourage the banks to lend more to business. The
biggest and most ambitious of these is the Funding for Lending scheme, which in
effect subsidises the banks if they make new loans, on top of what they have on
their books already. In theory it should make it easier for them to lend more
and help to get the economy moving.

But on Wednesday the Financial Policy Committee, the bit of the Bank charged
with financial stability, published a report on the health of British banks -
prepared for it, as one of its last acts, by the Financial Services Authority.
The raw conclusion was that British banks and building societies need an extra
£50bn of capital to cope with possible future losses on commercial property and
the eurozone, payments in compensation for past misdeeds, and being more prudent
in their calculations of risk.

As a result the committee thinks the banks should raise at least £25bn of new
capital by the end of this year, and has told another Bank committee, the
Prudential Regulation Authority, to make sure it happens. The PRA should then
chase the banks to make sure they carry on raising capital.

So on the one hand the Bank is pushing the banks hard to lend more; on the other
it is demanding they raise huge amounts of capital, which in effect means that
money they might have lent out will instead get diverted to reserves. The
timescale must surely mean it is highly unlikely that they will be able to lend
more.

The Policy Exchange think-tank helpfully pointed out that bank lending to
private companies in the UK has fallen by £10bn a year every year since the
start of the financial crisis. "Increasing the capital ratios even further, as
the FPC is proposing, will lead to a further lack of credit," it says. "It is
the Bank's drive to raise capital ratios that is holding back lending."

The relationship might not as clear cut as this comment suggests. But you do
have to wonder whether the best way to get maximum performance from a car is by
pressing both the accelerator and the brake at the same time.

Hairline crack shows in Poland's euro optimism

Perhaps the most astonishing bit of news this week was that the government of
Poland, headed by Donald Tusk, is still committed to joining the euro. After
what happened in Cyprus this week it seems a bit like being convinced that
nuclear power is the way of the future the week after Chernobyl blew up.
Apparently, however, Mr Tusk believes his nation implicitly agreed to join the
euro when it voted to join the EU back in 2003 and he seems determined to begin
the final stages of accession to the single currency by 2015 so that it can be a
full member by 2017.

Not surprisingly, recent events have prompted some to change their minds, and
opinion polls say that however happy they are with the EU - and Poland has
weathered the financial crisis remarkably well - 62 per cent of the population
do not want to take the further step and adopt the euro.

The news on Wednesday was that Mr Tusk conceded there might just be a case for
another referendum, given how the world had changed. No promises, though.

Rowland keeping it in the family bank

I rather fancy the idea of being so rich that you buy your own bank to look
after your money rather than having to lie awake worrying that your high street
branch is about to go bust on you.

Channel Islands-based David Rowland did that, buying the Luxembourg subsidiary
of one of the failed Icelandic banks - and his daughter Venetia Lean, with whom
I had lunch a few days ago, is one of the team running what is now known as
Banque Havilland - named after the family home.

It was a slightly odd feeling talking to the daughter because I used to
interview the father fairly often 40 years ago, when he was a controversial
figure, and they have a lot of the same mannerisms. But more to the point they
seem to have a similar passion and flair for business, and not content with
simply running the family funds, the bank has now opened a London office,
recruited some key people from Citi's private bank, and is looking to expand its
client base.

Only seriously wealthy people need apply - but apparently after this week's
events in Cyprus they are doing so in droves.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 26, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

EU suspends sanctions after peaceful poll;
ZIMBABWE

BYLINE: DANIEL HOWDEN

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 105 words


The European Union has suspended targeted sanctions against a number of
Zimbabweans after endorsing a "peaceful and credible" referendum on a new
constitution.

Travel bans and asset freezes will remain in place against President Robert
Mugabe and nine other people. Sanctions will also continue against the state-run
Zimbabwe Mining Development Corporation, which has been accused of trading in
conflict diamonds.

The move will be criticised by rights monitors who pointed to intimidation by
security officials during public consultations to draft the new constitution.
The settlement was endorsed by 95 per cent of voters last week.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 25, 2013 Monday
                                 Second Edition

LABOUR TO WARN AGAINST EU EXIT

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177 words


David Cameron's strategy on Europe is putting Britain's special relationship
with America at risk, Labour will claim today.

Douglas Alexander, the shadow Foreign Secretary, will dismiss as "a Eurosceptic
fantasy and post-Imperial delusion" the idea promoted by some Conservatives that
looser UK ties with the EU would allow Britain to strengthen its links with the
US. "A British exit from the EU would fundamentally damage our partnership with
America," he will warn in a lecture at Harvard University.

In the Opposition's strongest attack on Mr Cameron's promise of an in/out
referendum on Europe by 2017, Mr Alexander will say: "Our relationship with the
United States has been described as a partnership of the heart, special, unique,
and exceptional.

"But one thing is certain, the UK's relationship with the US would be a lot less
special if we were outside the EU. "

The Labour leadership is resisting pressure from some Labour MPs to match Mr
Cameron's referendum pledge in its 2015 election manifesto and is now stepping
up its attack on the Prime Minister.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 20, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

'If the Russians leave Cyprus, the island will be destroyed';
For many businesses, the wealthy expat community is the lifeblood of their local
economy. Nathalie Savaricas reports from Nicosia

BYLINE: Nathalie Savaricas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 526 words


As the drama unfolded in the parliament building in Nicosia last night,
thousands of protesters assembled in nearby Lena Stylianou Square to express
their disgust at the situation Cyprus now finds itself in. Chanting "Troika get
out!", the demonstrators were kept several hundred metres from parliament by
riot barriers and lines of police, while on the other side of the line dozens of
news crews and journalists were reporting on what was taking place inside.

Amid the crowds Marina, a 44-year-old housewife, said she wanted Cyprus to avoid
retracing Greece's footsteps: "We want a referendum, the government must fall
and allow us to decide on what we want." Her friends agreed. "Look at what
happened to our neighbour [Greece], we don't want to become like them."

Kostakis, a 60-year-old public servant, also roundly rejected European help. "We
prefer to help our country by lending our money straight to the state. They can
return it in a few years with interest - it beats becoming a colony of the
Troika."

Inside parliament, the opposition party leader echoed the sentiment of the
crowds. "Why should we accept our entry into a vicious circle of uncertainty
which will lead to worse measures? Why accept a measure that has never been
accepted anywhere else?" asked Communist leader Andros Kyprianou.

He also demanded a list of all the names of depositors who had withdrawn their
savings from bank accounts in the run-up to the controversial Eurogroup summit
that decided on the stringent deal. Rumours had been spreading on the island
that a number of politicians and foreign dignitaries had removed their assets
from financial institutions in recent weeks.

Earlier in the day, the Cypriot Finance Minister was landing in Moscow to
explore alternative options with the island's long-time Russian allies. Many
Cypriots fear losing their close links with the Russian expat community should
an eventual bailout deal come down hard on those with the largest bank balances
on the island. An increasing number of Russians are now resident in Cyprus and
their activities provide work to many: from large companies to small shops.
Imposing mansions and fancy designer shops in the capital are evidence of this
recent financial boom.

One of the island's most important law firms deals largely with Russians.
Vassiliades & Co said its clients had almost all said they will move their
deposits as soon as financial institutions in Cyprus open again.

"We have the exact same amount of Russian interests in Cyprus as in the South of
France, but the EU doesn't seem to be that preoccupied by that," said Chris
Vassiliades. He added that most of his Russian clients are thinking of
transferring their funds to France. "We are trying to appease them as at the
moment nobody really knows what will happen."

"If Russians leave Cyprus, the island will be destroyed," said 40-year-old
George.

Elias, a Cypriot who owns a mini market in the heart of Nicosia, sells products
that range from Vodka to jams and sausages to the Russian community. "If they
leave, I might as well close my shop. What's the point of buying this stuff if I
can't sell it, other than outright catastrophe?"

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Second Edition

They want to humiliate us, to destroy our dignity, say protesters;
Angry mobs lower the German flag and draw swastikas in anti-EU demonstrations,
says Nathalie Savaricas in Nicosia

BYLINE: Nathalie Savaricas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words


"They're robbing us, they want our savings, they want to humiliate us, to
destroy our dignity - and all this for the EU and IMF," said 45-year-old Maro
Pashali, one of hundreds of protesters who gathered outside the Cypriot
parliament in Nicosia yesterday in protest at the country's bailout deal.
Demonstrators showed their anger by climbing a pole outside the building to
lower the German flag, while others brandished placards bearing a European Union
insignia with the stars drawn in the shape of swastikas. Some called for a
referendum - the right to decide on their future independently of "German
diktats" - as young men with scarves hid their faces and chanted anti-German
slogans.

As their politicians were attempting to renegotiate the EU/IMF deal to make the
terms more favourable to smaller savers, many in the crowd were wondering
whether there was not a better way.

Former Foreign Minister and politician Giorgos Lilikas, who attended the
protest, told The Independent: "There was another solution which was to offer
our natural resources in exchange for help from Europe. If we have to put our
banks as a warranty, we don't need the Troika, we can do it on our own."

Eleni Nikodimou, an 60-year old artist accused the European Union officials of
being "crooks". "They've destroyed our lives, so we're here to put pressure on
Europe." She said she was hoping to remove all her savings as soon as the banks
opened again.

Desperate Cypriots have been rushing to ATMs since Saturday morning in desperate
attempts to salvage some of their savings. But cash machines are being quickly
depleted, adding to the sense of confusion and panic on the streets.

Bank transfers have also been suspended since the weekend, creating massive
headaches for ordinary people and businesses alike. A Belgian who has been
working in Nicosia for the past 20 years worried that all these measures would
be a "fatal blow" to his shipping business. Raphael Ryckx's company pays
contractors on behalf of his non-Cypriot clients, but due to the current freeze
on transfers his company is unable to carry out the required transactions. Not
only will he not be able to pay his contractors on time, his clients' funds are
likely to be taxed under the new bill because they were temporarily kept in a
Cypriot bank.

"I'm not surprised if our clients no longer want to do business with us," he
said. "We're meant to pay contractors and so many others companies on behalf of
our clients - money transfers we can't carry out.

"This is an incomplete, incompetent and imperfect decision."

Other Cypriots took a more sober approach to the crisis. Kiriakos, a 72-year-old
taxi driver, said. "I lost my home and so much more during the 1974 invasion.
Now my savings are being threatened again by our supposed friends - the
Europeans. I love my country and want to help as I can, but I'm not to blame for
this mess."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 16, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

'Secret searches' after I browsed a comparison website

BYLINE: PAUL GOSLING

SECTION: Pg. 60

LENGTH: 952 words


Q I've listened to lots of warnings about identity theft and the need to be
vigilant, so I decided to check my credit report with Experian. To my amazement
I found a number of searches had been carried out on me by companies that I had
never had any dealings with and had not asked for credit of any sort. I asked
Experian why this should be the case and they replied telling me that it was
very likely that I had visited a price comparison website that effectively gave
permission for searches to be carried out. I did visit the comparethemarket.com
website when I was looking to renew my car insurance, but I was completely
unaware that this would entitle insurance companies such as Admiral, Swinton and
others to carry out credit searches on me - after all, I didn't ask them to
provide insurance cover, let alone provide me with credit. I wonder how many
people innocently browse these comparison websites unaware that by doing so they
are offering a number of insurance companies the authority to carry out credit
searches on them. And how many of these people realise that the greater the
number of searches carried out on them, the worse it looks to a potential
lender? JC, by email.

A James Jones of Experian explains: "What generally happens here is that you
give permission to the providers, via the comparison site, to carry out searches
of your credit report - now and possibly at future renewal dates - for the
purpose of ID verification and credit quotation. They do the latter because many
people elect to pay insurance premiums through credit instalments, so this
enables them to quote you a price for this up front alongside the basic premium.
Importantly, the footprints that these inquiries leave behind on credit reports
are not the 'credit application' type so they are not seen by lenders and they
don't influence credit scores. You have a legal right to see all searches when
you check your own credit report, of course. This factsheet provides a bit more
detail about the different types of search footprints:
www.experian.co.uk/assets/consumer/downloads/resources/searches-oct11.pdf." We
also asked comparethemarket.com for a comment, which they agreed to provide but,
despite being reminded, they failed to provide this.

Q I am a pensioner and have been planning to move to a European Union country in
a year or so. I need to be able to draw my state pension, which I can currently
do whilst Britain is a member of the European Union. I am now very worried that
with the promise of a referendum we might pull out of Europe and I will lose my
entitlement to a state pension in Europe. What do you think? If we do pull out -
perish the thought - do you think arrangements will be made for we senior Brits
who want to live in the EU and draw our state pension? This issue will obviously
affect hundreds of thousands of British pensioners living in the EU. JH, by
email.

A Your state pension is yours as of right and is not dependent on where you
live. If you retire abroad, you keep your entitlement to receive your basic
state pension. However, you may lose any annual increases in the level of state
pension unless you live in one of the countries where the Government has agreed
it will uprate the pension payments in line with those paid within the UK. The
list of countries where you will get annual increases is quite long, but very
far from comprehensive. It includes countries with which the UK has close
connections - such as the United States, Australia, Israel and Jamaica - and
those nearby territories that have close ties but are independent jurisdictions
- the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands. It also includes all the European
Union and most other European countries. Given this, it seems likely that even
if the UK decided to withdraw from the European Union state pensions would still
be uprated annually. We did speak to the Conservative Party, which asked us to
forward your question to them to enable them to provide an answer. Despite this
and reminding them on three occasions, we had no reply. The referendum has been
pledged by the Conservative Party if they win the next election. While current
opinion polls show support for withdrawal, many observers believe that public
opinion might shift during a referendum campaign - if a referendum does take
place.

Q I purchased a pair of Dr Dre Beats Mixr headphones for £160 for my 14-year-old
son - who paid half - following some good work by him at school. He was
delighted with them. But despite only ever been used lightly, they stopped
working properly after only three months. I enquired of Beats' customer service
department if they could put the fault right. It took almost two months for them
to respond and since then I have provided lots of information. Unfortunately we
cannot find the receipt, but Beats agreed to accept a copy credit card statement
- which I have supplied - as proof of purchase. My son has been without properly
functioning headphones for three months. All Beats needed to do, I think, was
provide a new cable, but buying one would cost £20. These were very expensive
headphones and I think the customer service has been unacceptable and the delay
is difficult to explain to my son. JB, Cheshire.

A We share your frustration. We have been emailing Beats for weeks trying to get
them to look into this - and have not even had an acknowledgement. Happily, your
persistence has been more successful than ours. You have sent us a copy of
correspondence from Beats which shows that it will now replace the headphones
after you return your existing pair to its warehouse in the Netherlands. All you
then need to do is to recover the estimated £15 postal cost for despatching the
parcel - good luck.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 14, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Grillo: northern Europe waiting to drop us like a hot potato;
ITALY

BYLINE: MICHAEL DAY in Rome

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 263 words


The head of the protest movement that stunned Italy's political establishment by
snatching a quarter of the vote in last month's general election has spelt out
his Eurosceptic credentials, with comments that will send shivers up the spine
of other eurozone members.

Former comic Beppe Grillo, whose Five Star Movement (5SM) looks likely to prove
the kingmaker to the centre-left Democratic Party in a hung parliament, repeated
his calls for a referendum on euro membership.

Telling the German business paper Handelsblatt that his Five Star Movement was
"the French revolution - without the guillotine", he added: "The northern
European countries are only holding onto us until their banks have recouped
their investments in Italian sovereign bonds. Then they'll drop us like a hot
potato."

Italian political pundit Professor James Walston, at the American University in
Rome, was less impressed by the latest Grillo comments. "Italy is not going to
leave the euro and Grillo wouldn't offer a referendum," he said. "Grillo likes
to follow the constitution only when it suits him."

Many think it is Mr Grillo's strong anti-austerity message that might give
Brussels more to worry about. 5SM has campaigned on halting Berlin-backed
spending cuts.

With no government yet formed, centre-left leader Pier Luigi Bersani will try to
form a minority coalition.

A poll in La Repubblica showed that only 28 per cent of Italians favour fresh
elections, while 67 per cent of respondents - including 73 per cent of 5SM
voters - said the formation of a coalition government would be best for the
country.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

My search for the three Falkland Islanders who voted to leave the UK;
Cahal Milmo finds a mixed reaction to the minority who wanted to sever links
with Britain

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 754 words


Summers, a sixth-generation Falklander, was pretty sure of the fate deserved by
the shadowy cell of refusniks known on the streets of Port Stanley yesterday as
"The Three". With a steely stare, she said: "They can have a one-way plane
ticket. Marked 'Do not return'."

As the diminutive capital of the Falkland Islands awoke bleary-eyed from a night
of partying to celebrate its overwhelming 99.8 per cent "yes" vote in favour of
remaining British, the hunt was on for the 0.2 per cent of the electorate who
said "no".

State-of-the art psephological analysis carried out yesterday by The Independent
on the back of an envelope showed that out of 1,517 citizens who cast valid
votes in the islands' two-day referendum on maintaining British sovereignty,
three chose to swim against the political tide.

The reasons behind such electoral dissent left many who danced the night away
wrapped in Union flags scratching their heads. Were they informed votes for
independence? Or were they a treacherous call to raise the Argentinian flag over
Government House? But most important of all - in a territory the size of Wales
with a population the size of an English village - what were the identities of
this non-conformist trio?

In the Pod gift shop on Stanley's quayside, whose steady stream of customers
from visiting cruise ships has diminished significantly in recent months due to
an Argentine ban on such vessels visiting its own shores, there was little
appetite for magnanimity. Asked whether the "no" votes might have been the
expression of an embryonic desire for this increasingly wealthy and confident
one-time outpost of empire to one day loosen the apron strings with the Mother
Country, she added: "I think that's being too generous."

Sadly, The Independent's hunt for these rare beasts among the 3,000 islanders -
around 2,000 of whom live in Stanley's quiet haven of brightly-painted,
tin-roofed houses - proved less than fruitful.

One man, identified as a possible referendum objector and who did not wish to be
named, responded as if asked whether he murdered puppies for a living. "Christ
no. Where did you get that from? I'm all for us exploring greater autonomy
eventually but there was really only one way to vote this time. It had to be
'yes'. We have to be united."

At one point, a rumour began to circulate that one of the "no" voters had been
expressing their opinions in one of Stanley's cafés. Further enquiries revealed
it was a visiting Eurosceptic who had been railing against the inadequacies of
the European Union and Britain's continued membership.

Others muttered darkly about "troublemakers" in the community with links to
Argentina, an unfair bit of fingerpointing considering that Falklanders with
Argentine family ties tend to be among the most sharply critical of the 1982
invasion and the staunchest supporters of the islands' British identity. In
Deano's Bar, a favourite watering hole for troops from the British garrison 50
minutes outside town, Wayne Leo, a St Helenian who has lived in Stanley for 12
years, said: "Whoever they are, they will be keeping their heads down. I think
if you voted 'no', with everyone so happy about the 'yes' vote, it might not be
a good idea to identify yourself. Nothing would happen. But people also have
long memories here."

But there were those who saw the "no voters" as evidence of a vigorous democracy
on the islands. Organisers had been concerned that an unanimous "yes" vote would
have run the risk of making the Falklands look like it had more in common with
North Korea than Britain.

Jan Cheek, one of the islands' elected legislators, said: "I think those votes
give our referendum credibility. If it had been 100 per cent in favour, it would
have been very suspicious."

One official added that if islanders wanted to criticise, then a better focus
for their ire would have been the 132 Falklanders who had registered to vote but
chose not to cast their ballots.

But the opinion of the world, in particular Argentine President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner, seemed of more interest than a witch hunt. Gavin Short,
another legislator, said: "There can be no misinterpretation as to how we feel
about our relationship with Britain. President Fernandez de Kirchner, we have
sent you a message: we have absolutely no desire to be ruled by the government
in Buenos Aires."

THE VOTE

IN NUMBERS

1,517

Total number of votes validly cast

92%

Percentage of turnout

99.8%

Percentage of "Yes" votes cast (1,513)

3

Number of "No" votes cast (0.2%)

1

Number of votes unaccounted for

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Mr Cameron was the biggest loser in Eastleigh;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 924 words


The by-election in Eastleigh in Hampshire produced three clear winners and two
losers; one of those losers being the Prime Minister, and the other, on a far
lesser scale, being Ed Miliband and Labour. But it was a high-stakes contest
with far-reaching consequences for all concerned, and for the bigger picture of
the country's national politics, too.

The first winner was Nick Clegg and, by extension, the Liberal Democrats. To
prevail in such apparently unpropitious circumstances - with the outgoing MP
awaiting sentencing for a criminal offence in a case that is still making news,
and with allegations of sexual harassment against a one-time party luminary
swirling in the media - has to be a tribute to the quality of the candidate,
Mike Thornton. But it also says something about the popularity, despite
everything, of the former MP Chris Huhne - one of the few Liberal Democrats to
increase his majority at the last election. It says something, too, about the
political complexion of the Eastleigh constituency, and voters' ability to judge
a candidate on his own merits.

For all these reasons, the significance of Mr Thornton's victory cannot be
overestimated. If the Liberal Democrat candidate had been defeated, Mr Clegg's
other difficulties would have crowded in, and his position as party leader would
be in jeopardy. As was clear from his response yesterday, Mr Clegg was one
extremely relieved politician. Mr Thornton's achievement is his party leader's
licence to fight another day.

The second winner at Eastleigh was the UK Independence Party - which had also
fielded a strong candidate in the person of Diane James. For an essentially
single-issue party - albeit one trying to widen its appeal - to beat the
Conservative candidate into third place might be dismissed as an anomaly typical
of by-elections. It could also be argued that Eastleigh was naturally favourable
territory for Ukip. But Mr Cameron cannot afford to dismiss this result so
lightly. It may be that Ukip is taking over the Liberal Democrats' former role
as a repository for the votes of those disillusioned with two-party politics,
but this does not make it any less dangerous. Its attraction to rural,
Eurosceptic and generally right-wing Conservatives has been demonstrated more
convincingly than ever.

The third winner, on a more modest scale, is the Coalition. That is partly
because Mr Clegg's position looks more secure, and partly because, in this one
instance at least, the Liberal Democrats seem to have bucked the trend for
joining a coalition to spell the political end for the junior partner. But it is
also because Mr Cameron now has even less of a reason to want the Coalition to
collapse. If the Conservatives had swept to victory, he could have countenanced
an early end to the power-sharing arrangement with equanimity, even
anticipation. This is no longer so, if it ever was. It may be that the party's
candidate, Maria Hutchings, was weak and made some questionable decisions - such
as absenting herself from a BBC discussion show in order to go campaigning with
Mr Cameron. But the Coalition now looks more solid than it did before the
by-election, and the curse of coalition seems to have attached itself to the
Conservatives.

It is as tempting, as it is usually misleading, to treat by-elections,
especially mid-term by-elections, as reflecting the national picture or offering
clues to the general election result next time around. And Eastleigh was as much
of a one-off as any by-election. For all its specifics, however, Eastleigh may
indeed suggest some pointers to the future - and if it does, they offer scant
consolation to Mr Miliband and still less to Mr Cameron.

To Mr Miliband, this by-election says that Labour still has much work to do
before it makes electoral inroads in southern England. The choice of John
O'Farrell as the candidate, a party celebrity who failed to strike the right
tone, might also cast doubt on the judgement of the party leadership. But the
message that Eastleigh conveys to Mr Cameron is still more negative, and
probably harder to remedy. It is that his attempts to modernise the party and
occupy more of the political centre ground have alienated a significant section
of the party and that his attempts to win it back - with his promise of an
in-out referendum on European Union membership and tougher language on
immigration - have not succeeded in diluting the appeal of Ukip.

Mr Cameron now faces a dilemma. He can try harder to recover the lost voters of
Eastleigh and their ilk by moving to the right. In so doing, though, he risks
disappointing those who liked the modernising messages and who might then take
another look at the Liberal Democrats. The inconvenient truth is that his party
is divided, that it is his policies that have helped to divide it, and that his
hope of winning an overall majority at the next election - a hope on which his
promise of an EU referendum is predicated - seems to be receding almost by the
day.

Of course, voters make different decisions in a general election. And, of
course, one-man bands, such as Ukip still is, are especially vulnerable to
shocks. More than two years remain before the next election and the political
landscape is by no means settled. Mr Cameron can hope that by then the Coalition
will have a better story to tell about the economy. But that would be good news
he would have to share with the Liberal Democrats and it might not heal his
party's ideological divide. In the aftermath of Eastleigh, Mr Cameron has some
serious thinking to do.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday
                                 Third Edition

WPP 'wins ugly' with record profits;
Advertising

BYLINE: GIDEON SPANIER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 216 words


WPP smashed annual profit records for the second year in a row in 2012 but the
advertising giant's chief executive Sir Martin Sorrell yesterday admitted "we
got there ugly".

He also warned the Tories' decision to hold a referendum on European Union
membership is casting uncertainty over the UK's economic prospects.

Sir Martin, pictured, warned last year of four "grey swans" of global
uncertainty - Europe, the Middle East, China and America - which posed a risk to
growth and he said the prospect of a British referendum after 2015 was now "a
fifth grey swan" undermining clients' confidence.

"The uncertainty diminishes their willingness to make decisions and invest,"
declared Sir Martin, who runs the world's biggest advertising and marketing
group, representing dozens of multinational clients including HSBC, Vodafone,
Unilever and Barclays.

Pre-tax profits in 2012 jumped 8 per cent to almost £1.1bn but underlying sales
rose only 2.9 per cent £10.4bn, below the 4 per cent forecast a year ago.

"We reached our targets, but we got there ugly," said Sir Martin, who said
clients were risk averse and reluctant to spend.

North America was surprisingly weak, slipping into negative territory. He said
the United States' budget deficit was a bigger worry than Europe.

The dividend is up 16 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Grillo's not funny and he'll have to grow up now he's a big player in Italy;
Global Outlook

BYLINE: Jim Armitage

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 1109 words


Remember at primary school when, on General Election day, we kids would play at
staging our own elections? I recall a hard-fought battle in 1979 when we had to
choose between a pig-tailed eight-year-old Conservative (campaigning on a ticket
of free chocolates for all), a Labour lad (a total ban on homework) and a
Liberal (biscuit baking to replace maths).

All very tempting ideas, but not especially good for the country. In Italy,
Beppe Grillo's policies are similar, but far more dangerous. Childlike, naïve
and economically suicidal.

There has been much mirth and winking admiration for his success at the
elections this week. But this comedian is seriously unfunny.

First of all, just look at what he's said he stands for. It isn't so easy to
find any actual manifesto ideas among his rabble, so I'll rely on the
Economist's synopsis: abolition of trade unions, a 20-hour working week,
university lecturers to be assessed and examined by their pupils, the abolition
of share options, a cap on salaries of senior executives. Worst of all, a
referendum on whether the country should default on its debts and leave the
eurozone.

Leaving aside the more bizarre of those (abolition of trade unions? Really?)
These are student policies that would send even more investors scurrying from
the troubled country, sending its economy into a tailspin.

In case they hadn't realised, the very youth vote which seems to have been his
core constituency would be the first to suffer from the surge in unemployment
that would follow.

What Italy needs, and what former prime minister Mario Monti was providing, is a
period of calm, to carry out the painful restructuring that needs to happen. Mr
Monti was boring, but he was doing what Italy, and Europe (whose taxpayers are
effectively underwriting Italy, let's not forget), required.

What Italy has now got is turmoil and renewed crisis. So far, Mr Grillo has
refused even to countenance forming a working government in Europe's
fourth-biggest economy.

That's just childish beyond belief. Or, as many a teacher has said over the
years, not big and not clever.

The size of Mr Grillo's Five Star movement's vote means it has entered the world
of the adults. It's time for this 64-year-old to grow up. Incidentally, our 1979
election was a better predictor than any of the Eastleigh polling companies came
up with last week. The Tory girl won with a chunky majority.

Eu is going too far by blocking bankers' pay

As a long-term ranter and railer against the excesses of bankers, it feels weird
to admit to feeling deeply uncomfortable about the European Union capping their
bonuses.

It's not that I don't feel angry at the size of investment bankers' pay packets,
those hundreds-of-thousands-of-pounds-a-year deals still so common in the
finance industry come out of our pensions and savings in some way or another. We
should still be furious.

But I'm deeply squeamish that politicians, be they in Brussels or in national
parliaments, should be allowed to dictate by law how privately employed staff of
privately owned businesses are paid. It seems such a violation of civil
liberties.

Local parliaments should continue to nudge pay policy in certain directions by
using taxes. They should order firms to disclose pay details of their fattest
cats. They should force banks to reveal more details about the size of bonus
pots. Crucially, they should encourage more shareholder engagement in pay
issues.

But to dictate those pay structures through direct legislation is an
infringement too far. Even if the victims are bankers.

And what is a "banker" anyway? Will the new EU rules apply to fund managers, who
also earn ridiculous bonuses for investing our money? Will they apply to the
hedge funds, who hired the dealers who left the big banks when their trading
divisions were closed? Will they apply to derivatives traders working for
insurance firms? Will they apply to the thousands of specialist outfits trading
bonds, currencies or derivatives?

Take a walk around the City, or the financial centres of Frankfurt and Paris,
and you'll never have heard of 95 per cent of the names on the brass plates. But
they nearly all carry out some form of activity most of the public would call
"banking". Yet I bet they will not be affected by these curbs.

Politicians in Brussels are right to want to reform the banking system, but they
must not legislate against a few big-brand firms out of an angry public's
clamour for revenge.

Old-fashioned operators who have superior style

Of course, bankers have brought this kind of draconian legislation on themselves
by continuing to pay themselves ridiculous amounts of money, often for
performing socially irrelevant, even damaging, tasks.

During Paris fashion week, which ended this week, a piece tucked away in the
Financial Times served as a reminder of the kind of useful work some
old-fashioned bankers still do.

It looked at a few of the fixers and connectors advising the famous high-end
fashion firms in times of sometimes life-threatening crisis. These are the
consiglieri who give highly valued financial advice to their clients over
decades, particularly when steering family firms dominated by ageing patriarchs
and matriarchs through the succession process.

People like Francesco Caretti, the banker who has advised the Ferragamo family
for so many decades that nobody remembers when he wasn't there. He even sits on
the board and is a shareholder. Or Gerardo Braggiotti, the Marcello Mastroianni
lookalike who co-ordinated the delicate sale of Valentino to Permira. Mr
Braggiotti also used his contacts to introduce new investors to Brioni when the
family clans were feuding.

You can't imagine these guys spraying magnums of Cristal around lapdancing clubs
and creating toxic get-rich-quick financial products.

Somehow, one doesn't begrudge them their Maseratis and Milanese villas half as
much as their shabbier peers on the trading floors.

Groupon's straight talker is a breath of fresh air

The stream of emails I receive from Groupon inviting me to buy face masks,
bikini-line waxes and eyeliner is one of the more irritating downsides of modern
communications. But it's nowhere near as annoying as the PR industry-driven
corporate doublespeak entangling most chief executives' vocal cords these days.
So it was delightful to read Groupon's accident-prone boss Andrew Mason's
resignation statement. "After four and a half intense and wonderful years as CEO
of Groupon, I've decided that I'd like to spend more time with my family," he
wrote. "Just kidding - I was fired today." Suddenly I like the guy. I find
myself scrabbling to find this morning's email: how much was that pedicure
again?

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 1, 2013 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Support for Britain's EU membership gets a boost

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 93 words


Public support for Britain's membership of the European Union has been bolstered
by David Cameron's promise of an in/out referendum, according to The
Independent's latest poll of polls.

The findings are a setback for Tory Eurosceptics who hoped the referendum would
pave the way for an exit. Before Mr Cameron's announcement, polls showed 48 per
cent of the public wanted to leave the EU, while only 31 per cent would vote to
stay in. Four surveys after his speech averaged 39 per cent in favour of
leaving, and the same proportion wanting Britain to stay in.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 1, 2013 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Cameron's EU referendum bolsters support for membership;
Poll indicates number of those who want to withdraw has dropped to 39 per cent

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 447 words


David Cameron's promise of an in/out referendum on Europe has boosted public
support for staying in the EU, according to The Independent's latest poll of
polls.

Although Conservative Eurosceptics welcomed the Prime Minister's pledge in
January to hold a referendum by 2017, it appears to have set back their cause as
people focused on the choice they would have to make in such a vote. His speech
prompted warnings from some businessmen that withdrawal could harm job-creating
trade and foreign investment in the UK.

Before Mr Cameron's landmark announcement, opinion polls showed that 48 per cent
of the public wanted to leave the EU, while only 31 per cent would vote to stay
in. But four surveys taken after his speech averaged 39 per cent in favour of
withdrawal, with the same proportion backing continued membership.

"It would appear that in opening up the prospect that Britain might be able to
renegotiate its terms of membership of the EU, the Prime Minister's speech has
served to persuade some people that perhaps the EU is an institution that can be
tolerated after all," said John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde
University, who compiled the poll of polls.

He said the apparent failure of the Cameron speech to stem the rise of the UK
Independence Party (Ukip) and the apparent reduction of Euroscepticism, suggests
that Tory MPs and strategists were misguided in thinking that Ukip's rise is
simply a consequence of anti-EU feeling. Professor Curtice said there are two
possible reasons why Ukip is still doing well - concern about immigration in an
era of continuing austerity and because the Liberal Democrats are no longer
available as a party to use to express dissatisfaction with the Government.

The latest weighted average of the polls conducted by ComRes, Ipsos Mori, ICM
and Populus shows that Labour extended its lead over the Tories from 9 points in
January to 13 points last month. Labour is now on 43 per cent (up 2 points on
the previous month), the Tories 30 per cent (down 2 points), the Lib Dems 10 per
cent (down 1 point), Ukip a record high of 9 per cent (up 1 point) and other
parties 8 per cent (unchanged). These figures would give Labour an overall
majority of 118 at a general election.

Yesterday senior EU figures warned Mr Cameron that his apparent threat that
Britain would leave the union unless it won a "new settlement" would backfire.

Herman Van Rompuy, president of the European Council, told a London conference
staged by the Policy Network think tank: "How can you possibly convince a room
full of people, when you keep your hand on the door handle? How to encourage a
friend to change, if your eyes are searching for your coat?"

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Second Edition

Still Special? Kerry makes Downing Street his first call

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 487 words


John Kerry's decision to make London the first destination for an official visit
as the new US Secretary of State was seen as a matter of kudos by the British
government. And yesterday, on arrival, the former presidential candidate spoke
of his determination to reaffirm the "special relationship".

It was immediately apparent, however, after Mr Kerry's breakfast with David
Cameron and his prolonged meeting with William Hague, that despite the change of
personnel, the US remains resolute in several differences of opinion with the UK
on foreign affairs: on the Falklands, Syria and Britain's role within the EU.

On the Falklands, the US signalled that it would not recognise next month's
referendum among Falklanders on their future.

The Falklands result, the British Government believes, will show that they do
not want to be under Argentine rule. Mr Kerry stated: "The United States
recognises the de facto UK administration of the islands but takes no position
on the question of parties' sovereignty claims thereto. We support co-operation
between UK and Argentina on practical matters."

US officials say there is no chance of Washington altering its stance over the
Falklands in the light of Latin American sensitivities over the matter despite
the value of the UK as a staunch ally.

Britain had argued unsuccessfully at an EU meeting in Brussels last week for
arming of the "moderate" rebel groups in Syria; London is now pressing for
substantive help for the opposition at an international summit in Rome this
week.

Standing with Mr Kerry at the Foreign Office, William Hague said that "an
appalling injustice is being done to the people of Syria, which the world cannot
ignore. In the face of such murder and threat of instability, our policy cannot
remain static as the weeks go by, and it is an important opportunity in Rome on
Thursday to discuss this with our allies and partners."

The US Secretary of State for his part said that he was "determined that the
Syrian opposition is not going to be dangling in the wind, wondering where the
support is, if it is coming". He was, he added, "not going to Rome just to
talk". But there was nothing to suggest that Barack Obama's veto on arming of
the rebels - despite advice from Mr Kerry's predecessor, Hillary Clinton, to do
so - will be reversed.

Mr Kerry went on to talk about the importance of the EU while discussing a
proposed trade agreement. "The fact is that Europe, free-standing, alone, is the
largest economy in the world. When you join that together with the USA, we have
a powerful ability to be able to affect the rules of the road and raise
standards and, most importantly, create jobs for all of our people."

A number of senior members of the Obama administration visiting London recently
had warned the Cameron government against holding a referendum on leaving the
EU, maintaining that a UK isolated outside would have much less influence in
Washington.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 25, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Labour should dare to articulate its alternative to Osbornomics;
Austerity

BYLINE: OWEN JONES

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1115 words


George Osborne may be the most disastrous Chancellor of the Exchequer of modern
times, but he offers a masterclass in how to win an argument you have lost. It
was he, not his critics, who argued that maintaining Britain's credit rating was
a key - if not the key - justification for austerity. It was he who argued that
a triple-A rating demonstrated that "the world has confidence" in his policies.
It was he who stood on a manifesto that pledged: "We will safeguard Britain's
credit rating with a credible plan to eliminate the bulk of the structural
deficit over a Parliament." It was he who once suggested that an election should
be called when Standard & Poor's put Britain on negative watch under Gordon
Brown's benighted premiership.

How perverse, then, that he has attempted to spin Moody's slashing of Britain's
rating to his own advantage. Here was a "stark reminder" of the need for the
Tories to deal with Britain's "debt problem", in contrast to Labour's crippling
addiction to borrowing. Humiliation has somehow become vindication. It has been
the strategy of the right ever since bankers fled Lehman Brothers carrying boxes
of their possessions: a crisis of the market, of neo-liberal dogma, was re-spun
into the sort of assault on the state that swivel-eyed Thatcherites never dared
to imagine was otherwise possible.

The opponents of austerity never put their faith in the discredited,
disreputable credit rating goons. It was these unaccountable ideologues
masquerading as experts who gave the likes of AIG and Lehman Brothers a clean
bill of health on the eve of their implosion - making a fair buck in consultancy
fees in the process, of course. They bully elected governments into economic
masochism and then, when the consequences are predictably catastrophic, slash
their credit ratings. "Fiscal self-austerity alone risks being self-defeating,
as domestic demand falls... eroding national revenues," was Standard & Poor's
glib assessment after downgrading the credit ratings of nine EU countries a year
ago. You don't say.

But that's not the point. Misery is being inflicted on millions of people, and
the Government justifies this hardship with a series of key tests. If even on
their own terms Tory slash-and-burn policies are failing, then there is no
rationale for austerity. The underlying deficit is growing. Debt is heading
north. The Institute for Fiscal Studies predicts that UK borrowing will exceed
Government targets by nearly £7bn this year, and £128bn will be added to the
national debt - beating last year's abysmal record. Growth has been stifled,
strangled and suffocated. Even if we avoid an unprecedented triple-dip recession
- and it ain't looking good - we remain in a crisis more protracted than the
Great Depression. And now Britain has had its triple-A rating scrubbed away. How
can Osborne even emerge in public after all this, let alone remain the occupant
of No 11?

And yet the Tories' trump card is to call Labour's bluff. You screech from the
sidelines, Mssrs Miliband and Balls, but where is your ready-made alternative?
Two years from an election which must be a referendum on the catastrophe of
austerity, here lies an approaching danger. Labour is likely to win, probably
with a majority government. But they may say this as they waltz into No 10: we
opposed brutal cuts which have extinguished growth and failed to reduce the
deficit or the debt. We are where we are, though, and to sort out the mess the
Tories have left us, we will have to implement some unpopular cuts of our own.
The Tories' current argument will be flipped. Outriders will applaud policies
that - if introduced by a Tory government - they would froth about.

It is a scenario that Tim Montgomerie, one of the brightest right-wing
commentators and editor of ConservativeHome, foresaw a few weeks ago. He wrote a
piece set in 2018, looking back. "Labour soon became a very unpopular
government," he wrote. "Like François Hollande in 2012, Ed Miliband had
campaigned for office on an anti-austerity message but had to U-turn once in
office." Hilariously, he suggested I would lead the left-wing "Green and Justice
Party" which would benefit from Labour's collapse: if I was to lose my mind and
set up some new party, it would certainly have a catchier name than that. But it
touched on a fate that has befallen Labour's European sister parties.

In Greece, PASOK unleashed self-defeating austerity; it now languishes on
single-figures in the opinion polls. In Spain, the Socialists were booted out in
2011 not because their right-wing opponents won more votes (they barely did),
but because their own supporters sat on their hands.

And yet Labour do have the outlines of an alternative. When Ed Balls stood for
the Labour leadership, he launched a now-vindicated attack on austerity. His
Bloomberg speech is a founding document of British neo-Keynesianism. He accepted
he was taking on a "consensus": just as in the 1930s, collective insanity is
still insanity. He warned austerity would be "counterproductive", "tipping us
back into recession". Imagine if Clement Attlee's government "had decided that
the first priority was to reduce the debts built up in the war", he asked us:
there would be no NHS, no rebuilt railways and housing, no welfare state. If
only he had stuck unrelentingly to this script.

As Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman put it, the Tories' cynical
comparison between national debt and household debt makes no sense because "our
debt is mostly money we owe to each other... Your spending is my income, and my
spending is your income." I become poorer because you spend less; you become
poorer because I'm spending less, and so the debt grows. The Tories' sneers
about the borrowing habits of their opponents don't even make sense: they are
borrowing, not as a temporary price to lift us out of economic disaster, but as
the cost of failed policies.

Last year - before the full calamity of Tory austerity had been exposed - YouGov
found 45 per cent of us believed the Government should switch to focusing on
growth "even if this means the deficit stays longer or gets worse". But
Osborne's failure must not lead to yet another bout of austerity under Labour.
Pushing growth through house-building, an industrial strategy and genuinely
publicly run banks; hiking taxes on the wealthy - who, contrary to myth, studies
show do not flee as a result; reducing welfare spending by no longer subsidising
private landlords and badly paying bosses: here can be the basis of Labour's
alternative. Osbornomics is sunk - and, if Cameron et al are ignominiously
thrown on to the scrapheap of history in 2015, it must not be resuscitated.

Twitter: @OwenJones84

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

COMEDIAN'S EUROSCEPTIC PARTY MAY GAIN SECOND PLACE AT ELECTION

BYLINE: MICHAEL DAY

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 172 words


The political establishment was quaking today after claims that a Eurosceptic
protest party headed by a stand-up comedian could finish with the second largest
share of the vote when Italians go to the polls this weekend.

Research by the centre-left Democratic Party suggests support for the Five Star
protest movement led by comic Beppe Grillo, pictured, which wants a referendum
on Euro membership, has surged since official polls were halted in the run-up to
the general election.

Corriere della Sera said that these gains would mean the comedian and his party
of political ingénues would win a larger share of the vote than Silvio
Berlusconi's conservative PDL party.

The mainstream, pro-Europe Democratic Party would still be favourite to form a
government.

Vincenzo Scarpetta of the Open Europe think tank, said: "Even the possibility of
an anti-euro party becoming the second-largest one in what historically has been
the most pro-EU country, shows just how difficult it will be to continue EU
-mandated austerity in Italy and beyond."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Why Ofgem needs to save our energy and stay well away from the politicians;
ANTHONY HILTON'S WEEK

BYLINE: ANTHONY HILTON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 822 words


It was interesting to see Alastair Buchanan, the man in charge of the energy
regulator Ofgem, break cover this week with a warning that we are running a real
risk of electricity shortages a few years out as coal- and nuclear-fired plants
are retired before anything has been built to take their place.

In this context, it would have been interesting to know what he thought of a
recent letter to the Financial Times from Eileen Marshall. She was widely seen
as a scourge of the energy industry. She was brighter than the industry's
economists, and ran rings round them.

Her thesis now is that most of the looming problems in the energy sector come
from Ofgem not doing its job properly. The role of the regulator should be to
hold the ring between customers, Government and the regulator so the business
can run on commercial lines. A strong regulator blocks politicians who want to
interfere, blocks companies that want to exploit customers, and provides a
reality check for customers who would like their energy for nothing.

That is what upsets Eileen Marshall today. She feels Ofgem has become too much a
creature of Government. She cites its recent decision to go along with the
Government's rhetoric on the tariffs companies should offer to customers. Such
dirigisme stifles competition, and is a significant step towards price controls,
she believes.

All this creates uncertainty. The more Ofgem stands back and allows politicians
to grandstand the more companies feel they are no longer masters of their own
destiny. Decisions on building new plants fall victim to political dithering and
short-termism. The uncertainty hinders investment and so security of supply is
becoming an issue. In short, in Marshall's view Ofgem has become part of the
problem not part of the solution.

Shared audits add up to a sensible solution Lunch on Wednesday with Michael
Snyder, chair of the Professional and Businesses Services Group, one of the
network of advisory committees for government. He, in his day job, is long-time
head of Kingston Smith, a mid-sized accounting firm.

Conversation naturally turned to how effective the Competition Commission would
be in its efforts to break open the public company audit market so smaller firms
get a crack at work dominated by the big four. Not at all was his view, because
even a policy shift which demanded that companies change auditors every ten
years or so would simply see one big four firm being replaced by another one of
the big four. Smaller firms would still be shut out.

But he did have a solution - though not one which found favour with the
Competition Commission. He thinks the big firms should be made to bring others
in to do some of the work so that in any big group a certain proportion of the
subsidiary company auditing is done by someone else. This is quite different
from joint audits where a giant and a minnow sign off the books of the holding
company - a dangerous conceit for the minnow because it becomes legally liable
for the whole project. A shared audit in contrast would introduce a fresh pair
of eyes lower down the business, cut costs because the smaller firms are usually
cheaper, and give them the experience they need to become more effective
competitors in the future. But it is not what the Competition Commission wants
to do.

Is it time for George to call in Mr Smithers?

The prize for this week's star bit of economic analysis goes to Andrew Smithers
of Smithers & Co. He kicked off his weekly commentary with the scathing
observation that "current economic policies consist of trying to do the wrong
thing and fortunately failing."

He added: "The post- crisis recovery has been the weakest on record despite the
greatest ever fiscal and monetary stimuli. This must either be because the
medicine has not been strong enough or the diagnosis is wrong. Policy makers
favour the first; we favour the second."

Bang on cue it became obvious on Thursday with the latest data on public
borrowing that George Osborne will fail to reduce the deficit at all this year.
Corporation tax receipts in January were disappointing; welfare payments
unsurprisingly were high. And his sleight of hand in counting in the windfall
from the auction of the mobile phone spectrum backfired when he got a billion or
two less than he had expected.

And this is separate from a construction sector sinking slowly to its knees and
a balance of payments position which shows little to no sign of improvement.
Alarmingly this persists in spite of the substantial devaluation of the pound a
couple of years ago, and a further slide in the value of the currency in the few
weeks since the Prime Minister announced his plan to hold a referendum about
staying in the European Union.

The private view from the Bank of England and much of the City, meanwhile, is
that Osborne needs an economic adviser - a polite way of saying he needs to
understand this stuff better. Perhaps he should appoint Smithers.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 22, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

After Berlusconi, Beppe should be just what Italy needs. And yet...;
WORLD VIEW

BYLINE: PETER POPHAM

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 835 words


Beppe Grillo is a revolutionary. Of that, there can be no doubt. The charismatic
comedian whose "Five-Star Movement" goes into the Italian general election this
weekend in third or possibly second place - polls are banned in the last two
weeks so we can't be sure - has rewritten all the rules.

He has practically done away with the stage - at rallies like the vast one today
in central Rome, he rambles through the crowd on the same level as his
supporters. He has turned his back on the fripperies of politics: Italian
politicians cruise around in state-funded, outsize blue Lancias and hop from
city to city by jet or high-speed train, but throughout his "Tsunami Tour" of
the country, Grillo has slogged from town to town in the campervan in which he
also sleeps.

Grillo has made the conventional mass media irrelevant: decades back, he was
barred from television after lampooning a massively corrupt Socialist prime
minister, but he has flourished away from the tube, and refuses to be
interviewed by Italian reporters, relying on his popular blog to spread his
views. He could claim tens of millions of euros from the state to fund his
campaign but claims nothing: recently, his movement's candidates received the
biggest share of the vote in regional elections in Sicily, of all places, after
spending a mere Euro 25,000.

Transcending the deep-rooted tribal divisions of Italian politics, he draws
support from the right as well as from the left. He is challenging the
shibboleths of Italian politics, questioning Italy's membership of the EU and
demanding a referendum on the euro. In a nation that is going back to Berlusconi
like a dog to its vomit, he represents something starkly, shockingly new.

There is little to spread alarm in his manifesto, which focuses on issues of
concern to every family: transport, public ownership of water, economic
development, free internet for all, the green revolution. There is little here
of the ugly racism that permeates the Northern League. The people Grillo
threatens to go after with baseball bats are not illegal immigrants but criminal
politicians.

So why is it that, up close, there is something horribly familiar about this
man? Is it mere Anglo-Saxon hypersensitivity to find something repellently
atavistic in his screaming, ranting, arm-flailing persona, this permanent
boiling over of righteous wrath? To be sure, Italian voters have plenty to be
angry about. The permissiveness of Berlusconi opened the floodgates of
corruption, and new scandals break every week.

Mario Monti, the technocratic PM, may have stopped the rot in some respects but
has done nothing to make the economy grow. And by teaming up for this election
with what remains of the Christian Democrats, he has revived unhappy memories of
the long years of graft and corruption which that party came to stand for.

If Grillo's Movement does as well as the polls suggest, enough of his candidates
could win election - he himself is not running - to put huge pressure on the
biggest grouping, most likely to be Pier Luigi Bersani's centre-left Democratic
Party. These will be inexperienced, first-time MPs, as honest as the day is
long, but probably not the sort of people to depend on if and when the nation
finds itself again on the cusp of economic disaster.

But that is not the most serious danger that Grillo poses. His programme may be
laudable, even if his proposal for having the successor to President Giorgio
Napolitano - a figure of enormous importance in volatile times like these -
chosen by a universal on-line vote risks worse damage to Italy than anything
even Berlusconi could inflict.

No, the real danger is the psychological allure of the man; the seductive charm
of the idea of throwing everything out - everything! - and starting afresh. The
old continent has been down that road before.

Is there any of Japan left to concrete?

Japan, though it is still one of the world's Big Three economies, has been
treading water for so long that this was beginning to seem its natural
condition. It has lived in a becalmed state ever since the property price bubble
burst more than 20 years ago, with near-zero inflation and near-zero interest
rates. In the past few years, it has provided a sombre sort of role model for us
in Europe.

But suddenly Japan seems to be waking up. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe wants to
bounce the economy back into shape with a huge programme of public works, to
bring back modest inflation, to shake the nation roughly awake. But is this
progress or merely repetition? During the boom years - when Mr Abe's father
Shintaro was the country's foreign minister - the big construction companies
that were the Liberal Democrats' biggest backers carpeted the country in
concrete from one end to the other in pursuit of growth.

Donald Richie, the great American observer of Japan who died this week, said
that when he arrived after the war it was the most beautiful country in the
world; it became just about the ugliest. What more can they do to it?

Twitter: @peterpopham

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 22, 2013 Friday
                                 Second Edition

HE COULDN'T, COULD HE?;
Italian politics is in such a moribund state that even Silvio Berlusconi isn't
out of the running as election day approaches. Michael Day reports from Milan

BYLINE: Michael Day

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1334 words


Scandals are the fertiliser of Western democracy," said a character in Dario
Fo's stage satire, Accidental Death of an Anarchist. The Nobel Prize-winning
Italian writer may have penned this in jest, but it will take on new resonance
this weekend, when Italy's corruption-weary public goes to the polls.

Italy is a country so fed up with its leaders that it has reached a political
deadlock - with millions still undecided over which of the seven parties in the
running they will choose to vote for.

And it is this deadlock that could allow former premier Silvio Berlusconi - who
has faced a catalogue of sleaze and corruption allegations, and epitomises much
of what voters deplore in their politicians - back into power.

To outsiders, it may seem inconceivable that Berlusconi remains so high on the
country's political agenda. Just 15 months ago, leaving Italy on the edge of a
financial abyss, a scandal-plagued Berlusconi was forced to resign from the
office of premier and make way for Professor Mario Monti, the Italian economist,
who was appointed as prime minister and head of a technocrat government. Mr
Monti managed to calm the markets, but not a great deal else.

In his first eight weeks, Mr Monti probably wielded more power than an Italian
premier ever had, but he failed to use it to take an axe to waste, cartels and
corruption. As result he had to raise taxes to fill the hole in Italy's balance
sheets.

With Italy mired in its longest recession for 20 years, these tax rises
exacerbated the effect of austerity measures and appear to have left the Italian
economy in a downward spiral; its economy is smaller now than it was 12 years
ago.

With Berlusconi's 'bunga bunga' parties having made Italy the laughing stock of
Europe, and Monti having apparently left Italians poorer, the election ought to
be a doddle for the centre-left Democratic Party (PD). But Italian politics are
not so simple.

Enter the PD's avuncular leader Pierluigi Bersani. He may have left his
communist roots well behind him - and can even claim the credit for some useful
liberalisation of the economy under the short-lived 2006-2008 Prodi government,
but moderates and free-marketeers regard Mr Bersani's links to the left-wing
Puglian governor Nichi Vendola and Italy's old-school public sector unions with
grave suspicion. And there are at least two far-left parties further to split
the anti-Berlusconi vote.

During the final weeks in the run-up to a general election opinion polls are
banned. But combining the most recent ones before the blackout suggests the
Democratic Party, with around 33 per cent support, has a useful but not
impregnable lead of between four and nine per cent over the nearest rival.
Incredibly, that rival is led by Silvio Berlusconi. Scandals, financial chaos
and age appear not to have dimmed the 76-year-old tycoon's appeal among many
voters.

A raft of effective TV appearances, anti-austerity rhetoric and even vows to pay
voters back millions in taxes, have put him within shouting distance of the
Democratic Party.

Many pundits say that the gap is too large to make up in a week. But more
cautious observers note that Berlusconi trailed by three to six per cent in the
2006 election, and very nearly won.

Another rival, Beppe Grillo - leader of the Five Star Movement - might
unintentionally give Berlusconi some extra help. In another sign of a country
desperate for an alternative to the current political elite, 15 per cent of
voters are reported to be ready to cast their ballot for the firebrand comic,
who offers no political experience, and campaigns on a seemingly-inexhaustible
supply of bile aimed at the country's ruling classes.

Dario Fo appeared on stage with Mr Grillo and his Five Star Movement on
Wednesday night in Milan's Piazza del Duomo. The crowd there dwarfed the
turnouts achieved so far by the mainstream political parties - indicating the
influence protest voters might wield in an election that is not just pivotal for
Italy, whose economic health is also crucial for the survival of the Euro.

The Five Star Movement has taken voters from all the mainstream parties. Most
pundits think, however, that the centre-left is likely to cede more voters to
this protest party than the centre-right.

The large number of undecided voters is a further complication. The leading
Italian pollster Renato Mannheimer, suggested this week in the Corriere della
Sera newspaper that one in four Italians had yet to decide for whom he or she
was voting, and that five million voters would probably make their mind up on
the day.

If, as many experts are predicting, Mr Bersani wins the largest share of the
vote then he will be automatically assigned a majority in the lower house, and
will be asked to form a government.

All eyes will be on the Senate, however, which has equal power in the Italian
parliamentary system. Mr Bersani is less likely to win a majority in the upper
house and may have to call on the support of Mario Monti (who is running under
the Civic Choice banner with his rag-tag coalition of conservative Catholic
centrists and moderate centre-right figures), in order to pass legislation.

Mr Monti's party trails behind Mr Grillo's in the polls, but his presence in a
position of influence might reassure foreign investors and the money markets, as
well as increase the likelihood of much-needed labour reforms. However, Mr
Monti's influence may strain the PD's links with far-left parties, which could
be problematic if it turned out their support was also needed.

Italian voters - enviously aware of the modern centre-left and centre-right
political parties in France, Germany and the UK, where flexible labour markets
and rights for divorcees and homosexuals are the norm - have few other options
in Italy's tribal, Vatican-influenced political system.

Oscar Giannino's liberal, libertarian, Stop the Decline party, with its emphasis
on privatisation and slashing Italy's self-defeating tax burden, offers
interesting alternatives. But it's a minnow in the polls, and its chances won't
have been improved by the news this week that Mr Giannino faked a master's
degree at a prestigious US university.

Instead, populist politicians have dominated this election. With some distance
to make up in the polls, Berlusconi promised unaffordable tax rebates, and
attacked spending cuts - and Germany - whenever he saw a microphone pointing his
way.

Yesterday, taking a break from politician-bashing, Beppe Grillo attacked the EU
and what he saw as its domination by the French. "They come here to sell French
milk, French cheeses; here, in the land of cheese and milk", he roared. Mr
Grillo threatened to go over every EU treaty with a fine-tooth comb. This is no
surprise; along with Mr Berlusconi's right-wing coalition partner, the Northern
League, The Five Star Movement is committed to a referendum on EU membership.

The offers of populist remedies are everywhere, with Beppe Grillo shouting
loudest of all. But what Italy needs now is not anti-politics. It needs good
politics.

With so much riding on the fate of the EU's third biggest economy, the
apparatchiks in Brussels will be hoping Italian voters come to this conclusion.

HOT TOPICS

THE CHALLENGES

Economy

Mario Monti may have calmed the money markets, but his hard-hitting tax rises
have been blamed for sinking the housing market. Italy is the eurozone's third
largest economy, and the continent will be watching these elections closely.

Corruption and organised crime

The country's three main crime organisations are among a minority that have not
suffered in the downturn. Corruption is rife: the country's state auditor
estimates that Euro 60bn (£52bn) is syphoned out of the state coffers every
year. It would take a strong leader to tackle both.

Social reforms

Many Italian voters are enviously aware of the modern centre-left and
centre-right political parties in France, Germany and the UK, where rights for
divorcees and homosexuals are the norm. But in Italy there is little choice for
those who seek social reforms.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 16, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Mugabe regime still failing the test, so why are we handing it a prize?;
Global Outlook

BYLINE: Jim Armitage

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 1027 words


Rewards for the punished are only meant to be for good behaviour. So why are we
about to give a glittering prize to the unpleasant government dominated by
Robert Mugabe? On Monday, in Brussels, the European Union's Foreign Affairs
Council will lift certain targeted sanctions on the country. William Hague will
sign up to the moves, which are being championed by the high representative,
Labour's Baroness Ashton.

It's not clear yet exactly which barriers will be removed, but I'm reliably
informed they will include the lifting of travel restrictions on certain members
of the Mugabe regime, plus the unfreezing of some of their assets.

Many of Mr Mugabe's top officials have become spectacularly rich from his
decades in power. Perhaps we should applaud as his newly liberated big guns come
to Sloane Street to splash out in Rolex and Louis Vuitton - our economy needs
all the help it can get. But I'm not entirely sure that boosting London's luxury
goods industry is what the EU Foreign Affairs Council should be all about.

Zimbabwe remains a deeply troubled state, arguably run largely for the benefit
of its leaders. Its diamond industry, as I wrote here some weeks ago, is deeply
flawed and open to corruption. Large amounts of money from its diamond mines
flow into the coffers of Zanu-PF, Human Rights Watch suggests, while its highly
partisan police force continues to harass and arrest opposition activists.

So why are we about to give Mr Mugabe a big pat on the back?

Mr Hague, Lady Ashton and Co argue the sanctions should be lifted to recognise
the fact that the government has said it will hold a referendum in March on a
draft constitution. General elections should follow later in the year.

But, setting aside all the other allegations of ongoing corruption and human
rights abuses, why would we want to be rewarding the regime for something it
hasn't even done yet?

The Zimbabwean sanctions should remain in force until free and fair elections
have been held - and note that expression: "free and fair".

Luxury in Piccadilly, big risks in Zimbabwe

At a cost of £500 to £900 per ticket, the dozens of businessmen attending the
ZimInvest London 2012 Forum last November will have been hoping for more than
just a few egg-and-cress sandwiches. They will not have been disappointed. The
five-star Le Meridien Piccadilly, not known for skimping on the catering, laid
it on in luxurious style.

More importantly, the suits who assembled - fund managers and others looking to
invest in Zimbabwe -met senior honchos from the country in what the event's
marketing blurb described as "an excellent high-level networking platform".

The lifting of sanctions on Monday will be used by said honchos as a major
recruiting tool in future conversations, we can have no doubt.

Attendees included the London Stock Exchange's Richard Webster-Smith, Old
Mutual's Patrick Bowes and Standard Bank's London-based Matthew Pearson, all
talking about the everyday realities of doing business in Zimbabwe.

Not present were the 11 British and Dutch folk who bought farmland in the
country in the 1980s, when Mr Mugabe was encouraging inward investment.

They were evicted in 2002 and, despite winning a World Bank arbitration hearing
awarding them £22m compensation, are still waiting for their money. Only last
week, the Zimbabwe government confiscated thousands of hectares of mining land
from Zimplats while Standard Chartered, Barclays and other firms this week were
said to face being forced to sell majority stakes of their Zimbabwean businesses
to "indigenous Zimbabweans".

Hopefully the well-fed ZimInvest guests were warned: investing in Mr Mugabe's
Zimbabwe is still a risky business.

Time for all to sign up to fight against corruption

Mehmet Dalman, the Labour-supporting chief executive of that controversial
mining group ENRC, was at the Conservatives' Black and White Ball in London the
other day. David Cameron was, of course, the keynote speaker (somewhat
underwhelming, I'm afraid).

I'm sure Mr Dalman will have taken the opportunity to congratulate the Prime
Minister on his enthusiasm for the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
(EITI), which aims to reduce corruption in mineral-rich Third-World countries
such as the Congo, where ENRC is a major player.

Glencore, Xstrata, Barrick Gold and others have all become, or are in the
process of becoming, signatories, and Mr Cameron was trumpeting the cause at
Davos. Yet Mr Dalman's ENRC, famed for its deals in the Congo with the infamous
Israeli diamond tycoon Dan Gertler, is seen in the industry as being something
of a laggard on the whole process.

Under EITI, money paid by companies for mining rights has to be matched by money
received by the states' treasuries.

Both amounts have to be published - the idea being to make it harder for cash to
disappear into certain back pockets en route. That can make it a tad more
difficult doing business in certain parts of the world.

The PM wants to get all of G8 to sign up to EITI while Britain has presidency of
the group this year. (Silvio Berlusconi, if he gets himself elected, is hardly
likely to be an enthusiast. This week he declared bribery was fine if it meant
winning lucrative contracts. )

It is to Mr Cameron's credit that his vision for the developing world is that
Western firms behave honourably and transparently. Somewhat embarrassingly,
though, we Brits aren't signed up to EITI yet.

Hopefully we - and that means ENRC - will have signed by the time the great and
the good meet up at the Lough Erne summit in June.

Something rotten in UBS Apple strategy

An interesting snippet emerged yesterday about Apple - a company whose shares I
can't help thinking (to the derision of my colleagues) may have fallen too far,
too fast.

The Swiss banking giant UBS sold its entire holding of 10.7 million shares
during the last three months of 2012. Very wise, as it turned out. But look what
its research team were telling clients in December: Apple was rated with a Buy
recommendation and a target price - the price up to which you should keep buying
the shares - of $700.

UBS was, meanwhile, busily selling its own stock at as little as $525. Today,
they're below $450.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 16, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

'DUMP F***ING EVERYONE': THE INSIDE STORY OF HOW GOVE'S VICIOUS ATTACK DOGS ARE
TERRORISING THE DfE

BYLINE: James Cusick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1056 words


The day David Cameron and Nick Clegg smiled at each other in Downing Street's
rose garden in 2010, promising their coalition would deliver a "bold and
reforming government", Michael Gove and his special adviser, Dominic Cummings,
walked to No 10 expecting to be handed the helm of the Department for Education.

The Prime Minister shook hands with Gove, giving him a seat in his Cabinet. But
the handshake given to Cummings came with nothing to celebrate. Andy Coulson,
then in No 10 as Cameron's Communications Director, regarded Gove's aide as
untrustworthy and a liability. Coulson believed that three months earlier, when
Cameron, George Osborne and Gove held private discussions in Notting Hill over
failures of Conservative policy, Cummings had leaked details of the meeting.

Coulson wanted Cummings' head and finally got it. But the rising heat on Coulson
from the phone-hacking scandal, and his resignation in 2011, changed everything.
With Coulson gone, Gove quickly brought Cummings back into the fold.

It is now two years since Cummings began radically reshaping the Department for
Education. Gove promised the Treasury he would "do more with less", would halve
the £580m annual running cost of the DfE by 2016, and slim down his department's
workforce by 1,000 people.

What the Gove-Cummings redesign means for those working for the DfE inside the
Great Smith Street headquarters opposite Westminster Abbey, is now only
beginning to emerge.

According to sources contacted by The Independent, along with evidence taken
from internal complaints lodged by staff on the receiving end of what many
regard as an "us-and-them aggressive, intimidating culture", Gove's policy
reform masks a hard-line ideological revolution.

One of the department's senior staff said he was no longer sure what the future
held, adding "DfE probably now stands for 'Dump F***ing Everyone'."

The expletive is no accident. An internal grievance report, prepared for a
tribunal that was scheduled to be heard this month, highlighted the
complainant's belief that events surrounding the attempted removal of a senior
civil servant were "more reminiscent of an episode of The Thick of It than a
reflection of acceptable behaviour of employees of the Department for
Education".

So, who qualifies as the DfE's Malcolm Tucker equivalent? This is a
long-standing joke across all eight floors of Great Smith Street. The conduct of
Cummings, however, along with the former director of communications, James
Frayne, a former lobbyist, has been criticised after episodes that have
contributed to staff simply walking from their jobs. Two separate Fleet Street
editors are alleged recently to have told Gove that he should end Cummings'
reign as a special adviser for the good of the party. Gove dismissed the advice
as misplaced.

It took a private settlement of £25,000 last month to stop details of
allegations of bullying and intimidation being heard in the London Central
Employment Tribunal.

Disciplinary action was not taken against Cummings or Frayne, but the director
who carried out the internal report said "the department handled the situation
in a regrettable way".

The report, which centred on a DfE staffer of 27 years, said she had made
allegations of being marginalised, promoted over, categorised as "difficult",
and was told on a stairwell that her role was no longer needed. Her complaint
describes a "macho culture of intimidation, favouritism and 'laddism'" in
Frayne's communications department, with Cummings singled out as "widely known
to use obscene and intimidating language". The report records that Frayne denied
swearing on a regular basis.

How deeply divided are the DfE's staff? An internal survey of the way Gove's
regime has changed the culture inside the education department has never been
published. Although the fast-track internal investigation found no "strong"
evidence of "aggressive or bullying behaviour", the "them-and-us" atmosphere
inside the DfE was acknowledged. "Dysfunctional" was another description used in
the report. This has been officially denied.

The us-and-them divisions inside the communications management team, according
to one former DfE employee, "could have come straight from an Armando Iannucci
script. A Have I Got News For You session, supposed to engender insight, turned
sour. An 'away day' almost required another away day to fix, and plans for an
anti-bullying week campaign ended up with some staff being turned on. You
couldn't make it up."

The source, who asked not to be named, said: "Cummings and Frayne want what Gove
wants: to put a firework up the DfE. You challenge that, and there's no place
for you." Frayne is reported to have said at one meeting: "Wind your neck in,
you're acting like a t***." Frayne admits to "heated" exchanges, but denied
calling anyone a "t***". "F*** it," or "let's just f***ing do it", and "what the
f*** do you mean?" are described by the complainant in a grievance report as the
routine retort to those who might be showing signs of slowing down the Gove
revolution.

The grievance process leading to the £25,000 settlement has one document in
which the complainant describes the elite group of special advisers close to
Gove as having created a culture of "untouchable entitlement" surrounding
themselves, with the belief ?that "their behaviour is not open to challenge".
Cummings is also alleged to have said "You're not on the same page, love".
Cummings denies ever using the word "love".

Cummings holds ideological credentials Gove values: campaign director of the
1999 anti-euro campaign, setting up the campaign for a referendum on the EU
constitution, establishing the New Frontiers Foundation which pushed for an
alternative to Britain's partnership with the EU. And both he and Gove are now
in a position to do what they said was necessary when the Tories were in
opposition.

A source close to Michael Gove said last night: "This case was a wide-ranging
grievance against the department, not specifically against special advisers. No
departmental inquiry has found that special advisers did anything wrong. James
Frayne was right to restructure the communications department and the
allegations against Dominic Cummings were dismissed by internal inquiries." A
spokesman for the DfE said: "It would not be appropriate to comment on
individual employment matters."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 15, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

John Major warns Cameron EU referendum is 'a gamble'

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 392 words


Sir John Major has urged David Cameron to negotiate positively as he seeks a
"new settlement" with the EU and played down Eurosceptics' hopes of powers being
returned to Britain.

The former Conservative Prime Minister backed Mr Cameron's pledge to call an
in/out referendum by 2017 but described it as a "gamble". He hoped it would
"heal sores" and have a "cleansing effect" on politics.

Sir John's seven years in Downing Street to 1997 were scarred by rows with Tory
Eurosceptics, even though he won an opt-out from the single currency and social
chapter of workers' rights.

Speaking to the Chatham House think tank yesterday, he said: "At present, we are
drifting towards and possibly through the European exit. We need a renegotiation
and a referendum endorsement of it. If this is denied, the clamour for it will
only grow. But it is a gamble for the country and for the Conservative Party.

"The relationship with Europe has poisoned British politics for too long,
distracted Parliament and come close to destroying the Conservative Party. It is
time to resolve the matter."

Sir John warned that the negotiations would be difficult, and suggested Mr
Cameron should not threaten a British withdrawal to try to "bully" our EU
partners. "If we enter with the aggressive attitude of 'give us our way or we
quit', we will fail," he said.

He continued: "We should not overestimate what can be achieved." He said other
EU nations were unlikely to allow Britain to withdraw from the social chapter,
to which the previous Labour Government signed up, and common agricultural and
fisheries policies.

But he believed Mr Cameron could deliver repeal of the working time directive,
safeguards for the City of London, less regulation, less bureaucracy, no more
social legislation and boosting the single market. Warning that some Tory MPs
had become addicted to rebelling, he said hardline Euro-sceptics would never be
satisfied no matter what Mr Cameron achieved.

"Members with Conservative heads and Ukip hearts cannot be placated. Whatever is
offered to them will be insufficient. They will demand more. They will only be
satisfied by withdrawal, so it's essential for the Prime Minister to rally the
persuadable majority of the parliamentary party. If the negotiations fail, the
referendum could be lost and we could slip out of the EU in frustration and by
default."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

A good night's work in Brussels;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 358 words


It would be tempting to hail the European Union budget agreement as an
achievement in itself, almost regardless of the contents. And for 27 national
leaders, with very different agendas, operating in a climate of austerity, a
deal is no mean feat at only the second time of trying. What looked so far out
of reach in December became possible yesterday after just 24 hours of talks.

Better still, the agreement somehow contrived to offer something to almost
everyone. And while every national leader needs to take something home from
Brussels, the stakes were especially high yesterday, not only because this
budget deal is intended to last for seven years. Under pressure at home,
François Hollande could not afford to look outmanoeuvred on money for
agriculture. Chancellor Merkel faces an election in September that looks closer
than once thought, and David Cameron's tribulations over Europe hardly need to
be spelt out.

At his press conference, the Prime Minister made much of the cut that had been
agreed in the EU budget - and his satisfaction was justified, given that all
previous budgets have increased, even if he did suggest that he had slain the
dragon alone. He boasted, too, of how doughtily he had defended what remains of
the British rebate, while Mr Hollande, it appears, had to give - some - ground
on agricultural subsidies. But Mr Cameron had also to concede, in answer to
questions, that Britain's contribution would still rise, even though it remains
a tiny part of total expenditure.

That could be seized on by his party's Eurosceptics to challenge the whole deal
- which anyway has still to be ratified by the European Parliament. But Mr
Cameron can be pleased that he achieved what he came for, if not a little more.
In fact, in his low-key approach to this summit and his readiness to make common
cause with, as he put it, "the Dutch, the Swedes, the Danes and Angela", the
Prime Minister might even be learning how to play EU politics to good effect.
That makes it doubly unfortunate that all many of our European partners see,
after his recent speech, is the prospect of an in/out referendum that casts
doubt on our commitment.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday
                                 Third Edition

Fuelled by Haribo and coffee, the PM won a battle. The war will be harder;
COMMENT

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 521 words


Luckily for David Cameron, a new Nespresso machine had been installed in the UK
delegation office at the European Council building just before his first
all-night EU session since becoming Prime Minister. The machine also worked
overtime. As dawn broke in Brussels yesterday, the only coffee left was
decaffeinated. Some 120 shots of the real thing had been used up by Mr Cameron
and his 20-odd team of officials.

Mr Cameron, who earlier joined EU leaders for a working dinner, snacked on
apples, bananas and Haribo sweets during Thursday night. Between negotiating
sessions, he worked on non-EU matters in his red box and signed letters. He
grabbed 40 winks but only on a chair, not a sofa. "It has been a long couple of
days," a tired and red-faced Prime Minister said last night.

His hard day's night was worth it. He could justifiably hail a significant
victory in reining in EU spending, as he had promised. Although he claimed it
was an example of how the UK can win friends and influence people, the real
power-broker was Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, without whom the row
between "cutters" and "spenders" would probably not have been resolved.

Mr Cameron's battle was just a warm-up for a much bigger war that he has already
declared. He will find it much harder to win allies for Britain's "new
settlement" for he has pledged to put to the people in an in/out referendum by
2017. Mrs Merkel may be less willing than Mr Cameron hopes to go the extra mile
to keep the UK in. Other budget allies like Sweden, the Netherlands and Denmark
may take their cue from her.

The Prime Minister insisted that some EU countries welcomed the debate sparked
by his big speech on Europe last month, recognising that he was calling for
change in the EU as a whole, not just Britain's relationship with it.

However, there were signs during the budget talks that Mr Cameron's implicit
threat to leave the EU could backfire. One negotiator remarked: "There is no
question of accepting a budget dictated by a country when we don't know whether
it will be a member of the EU in 2017. There's a revolt against Cameron."

A French source acknowledged Mr Cameron's "tenacity", but his budget battle with
François Hollande suggests the French President will owe him no favours.

The Prime Minister tried to build bridges by praising France's intervention in
Mali, but there is tension in the air. Mr Hollande offered only a perfunctory
handshake when the two leaders met in the summit room.

Tory MPs will doubtless cheer Mr Cameron today and when he reports back to the
Commons on Monday. But they are hard to please and may not be cheering for long.

His undoubted success in the budget talks will raise even greater expectations
that he will be able to secure a significant return of powers from Brussels to
London. The Prime Minister will struggle to fulfil them.

His MPs are a fickle bunch, as they showed by plotting to oust him as leader
just days after he gave them the referendum they craved. As he tries to
renegotiate Britain's membership terms, Mr Cameron's all-nighters in Brussels
will be a lot harder - and more lonely - than his first one.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 8, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

This is no time to write off the Tunisian revolution;
WORLD VIEW

BYLINE: ADRIAN HAMILTON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 756 words


It wasn't Tunisia's wish to be hailed as the exemplar of peaceful revolution in
the Arab Spring. And it's not its fault now that the assassination of an
opposition figure should set off a host of headlines declaring the end of the
dream of democratic change.

It isn't, and there is something deeply unattractive in the way Western comment
so readily seizes on the tensions between an Islamic government and a secularist
opposition to suggest that Islam is somehow destined to tear the Middle East
apart and make impossible a transition to pluralism and political freedom.

It is to fall into the trap set by the assassins of Chokri Belaid to accept that
it does. The Tunisian politician was killed not for his outspoken opposition to
Islamisation, although he certainly voiced that. Nor was his death implicitly or
explicitly sanctioned by the ruling Islamist Ennahda party, although it did too
little to protect him. He was killed because, at a delicately balanced time for
a country, terrorism is a tactic of disruption which extremists hope to, and do,
take advantage of.

For all the hopes imposed upon it, Tunisia hasn't had an easy ride in the two
years since it set off the Arab Spring by summarily, and relatively painlessly,
ousting its long-term president Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali. Its finances have
virtually collapsed. Tourism remains in the doldrums. Unemployment, particularly
among young men, has soared. There have been riots in several of the main
cities. The Prime Minister, Hamadi Jebali, has failed in recent weeks to form a
broad coalition government including secularist groups. Now he has dissolved the
cabinet and called for a government of technocrats to rule the country until new
elections can take place, only to be rejected by his own party which
(understandably) opposes such drastic measures when it won most seats in a fair
vote only a year and a half ago.

It's not so very different from Egypt, although Prime Minister Jebali and his
secularist president, Moncef Marzouki, have tried a lot harder than President
Morsi has to make peace with their opposition.Nor do you need an extensive
knowledge of European history to think problems of this sort are far from
unusual when countries move from one regime to another.

The delicacy of Tunisia's position, like that of Egypt and Libya, is that it is
extremely vulnerable to violent upset. It only takes an assassination or the
deaths of protesters to set off a chain reaction which brings the whole house
down. That's why extremists go in for it. It's not the mindless violence which
politicians tend to call it. On the contrary, it's very minded in its
intentions, whether it's the murder of the US Ambassador in Benghazi or the
seizure of Western hostages in an Algerian gas plant. And very often it works.

There's no easy answer except one of keeping calm and plodding on with political
compromise, on the basis that most of the public wants stability rather than
chaos. Certainly, the Tunisian government's reaction in disbanding the cabinet
and calling for elections seems somewhat extreme.

What it most needs to do is to establish an independent inquiry into the
circumstances of the death and a rallying of political forces behind a unity
government. Europe could help this process by offering the kind of economic
assistance that has so far been slow to come amidst our fears of North African
immigration.

All is not lost in Brussels - just yet

Today's EU summit in Brussels will be the first David Cameron attends since
declaring his support for an in/out referendum. Not that any of his fellow
premiers will be indelicate enough to raise the matter. Why should they when
all, including the Prime Minister, prefer this sleeping dog to lie until the
next election? With luck, they think, by then it may be irrelevant.

The trouble is that this is exactly the approach they are all adopting to
discussions about the EU budget. On this, at least Cameron has some support.
Germany, Holland and Sweden all want a cut in a budget that the poorer countries
oppose.

By any logical standards, this is when Europe should take a long, hard look at
its structures and spending. But it's also a time of recession and continuing
problems with the euro. The interesting question is whether Cameron will use the
opportunity to build alliances for European reform or whether he feels impelled
to appeal to his backbenchers at home by refusing all compromise. He's brought
this on himself. But he has bought some room for manoeuvre by his referendum
speech.

a.hamilton@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cameron to demand Euro 7bn cuts in Brussels bureaucracy at EU summit

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 348 words


Tens of billions of euros of further cuts will be demanded by David Cameron
today, as European Union leaders wrangle over how much the 27-nation bloc should
spend between 2014 and 2020.

There were signs last night that the Prime Minister's campaign for spending
restraint is gaining support. Herman Van Rompuy, the European Council President,
who will chair a two-day summit in Brussels, starting today, is expected to
reduce by Euro 15bn the Euro 973bn seven-year budget he proposed in November,
which resulted in deadlock when EU leaders debated it.

Yesterday, Mr Van Rompuy said that "for the first time ever there will be a
real-terms cut compared to the current budget". On the face of it, that would
meet Mr Cameron's long-stated goal and could allow him to "sell" the deal to
Eurosceptic Tory MPs.

Mr Cameron will renew his demand for at least Euro 7bn of cuts to the Brussels
bureaucracy through a 10 per cent reduction in the pay bill; an end to automatic
promotion; reduced pension rights and scrapping special tax advantages for
staff. He will point out that Whitehall has secured £12bn of similar efficiency
savings since the Coalition was formed in 2010.

It will be his first meeting with his EU counterparts since he announced an
in/out referendum on Britain's membership of the Union last month - a move which
angered some. The Prime Minister told MPs yesterday: "These are going to be
extremely difficult negotiations."

Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, is seeking to broker a deal acceptable to
both the UK and France, whose President, François Hollande, is keener to
maintain spending and has previously targeted the special rebate on Britain's EU
contributions won by Margaret Thatcher in 1984. The net recipients from the EU
budget, including Poland, are also anxious to preserve spending levels.

The European Commission said it had already agreed to cut more than Euro 1bn in
administrative costs over the period. A spokesman said more severe cuts would
leave the Commission unable to do its job, just as it is being called on to do
more as the EU integrates more deeply.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 6, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

From personal tragedy to political bloodbath;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 618 words


The saga of Chris Huhne's marital collapse, dodged speeding points and
bare-faced mendacity is not just a personal tragedy. As the former cabinet
minister and one-time Liberal Democrat leadership contender faces prison for
perverting the course of justice, the Eastleigh by-election precipitated by his
spectacular fall from grace is shaping up to be a political bloodbath.

There is no upside for the Liberal Democrats from the Huhne debacle. Judging by
the opinion polls, the exigencies of coalition have left the party facing the
possibility of electoral oblivion in 2015. That it provided the rare spectacle
of a British secretary of state being forced from office by a criminal charge
will hardly help. At the same time, the departure of so big a beast as Mr Huhne
- flexible morals and all - will be sorely felt by the party leadership. The
suggestion that Nick Clegg might welcome the departure of so credible a rival is
simplistic. In the struggle to transform the Liberal Democrats from an electoral
cul-de-sac of permanent opposition to a grown-up party of government, Mr Clegg
needs all the top-quality talent he can find.

Nor are the specifics of Eastleigh entirely encouraging. Despite Mr Huhne's
near-4,000 majority, it is far from certain that the Liberal Democrats will
retain the seat, given the public anger at his repeated professions of innocence
and 11th-hour guilty plea.

The hope for Mr Clegg et al is that the Liberal Democrats' strong local support
will outweigh both the general qualms about coalition and the specific outrage
about Mr Huhne. Perhaps. After all, even as the party lost council seats hand
over fist in last year's local elections, it gained two in Eastleigh. The risks
are great, though. Even with so obvious a scapegoat, the loss of the seat would
be a body blow to Mr Clegg's efforts to convince his party that coalition
government, although a hard road, is still one worth walking.

Meanwhile, if there is one certainty in the Eastleigh by-election, it is that
the Conservatives will fight tooth and nail to win it. Not only do Tory
optimists point out that Mr Huhne's increased majority in 2010 owed a lot to
tactical voting by Labour supporters. For the rank and file, smarting from the
Liberal Democrat "betrayal" of their voting against boundary reform last week,
there is also a personal dimension.

For David Cameron, too, victory is about more than just one extra MP. Although
the Tory leaders faces insurrection on all sides, the plotters are a fragmented
lot, exercised over everything from Europe to gay marriage. The only common
thread is their scepticism as to whether Mr Cameron can deliver an outright
victory in 2015. If the party cannot win in Eastleigh, even when the
far-from-secure incumbent is swapping the Commons chamber for a prison cell, the
forces of sedition will coalesce more dangerously than ever.

Labour will also campaign in Hampshire. But with less than 10 per cent of the
last vote, it is no serious contender. Eastleigh is, then, all set to be a
head-to-head scrap between the coalition partners, further destabilising an ever
more fractious relationship. There is another possible rogue element, however -
and that is Nigel Farage. The Ukip leader has already contested the seat once,
way back in 1994, and has not ruled out trying again. We challenge him to do so.
Last month's promise of an EU referendum pulled the political rug out from under
Ukip's blandishments to the Tory right. Mr Farage claims his party has more to
offer. Now is his chance to prove it.

With so much riding on its outcome, the fight over Eastleigh will be fierce.
Indeed, the political fallout from Mr Huhne's 10-year-old traffic offence is
only just beginning.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

RUTHLESS POLITICAL OPERATOR WHO COULD HAVE LED HIS PARTY INTO POWER;
Relentless ambition took him close to the very top of politics - and his
disgrace has left friends in shock. Andrew Grice reports THE RISE AND FALL

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1015 words


"There will be some good news soon," Chris Huhne has repeatedly reassured
political colleagues in recent months - Nick Clegg among them. The word
throughout Liberal Democrat land was that the former Cabinet minister, one of
the party's few genuine big-hitters, would soon be back in the game because his
trial on a charge of perverting the course of justice would collapse.

Mr Huhne's confidence made yesterday's shockwaves from his decision to change
his plea to guilty all the greater in Westminster. It certainly came as a bolt
from the blue to Mr Clegg when Mr Huhne phoned him at his Putney home on Sunday
evening to say he was going to admit the offence and resign as the MP for
Eastleigh.

Mr Huhne's downfall started with his decision to leave his ex-wife Vicky Pryce
and their children when the press revealed his affair with Carina Trimingham,
his former media adviser, who had been in a civil partnership and who has been
vilified by some newspapers. She told The Independent on Sunday: "I'm just a
regular person who happened to fall in love with someone who was an MP."

Even Mr Huhne's friends would not deny his ambition. His enemies say it came
with more than a touch of icy cold ruthlessness, an eye for the main chance and
a killer instinct.

This ruthlessness extended to the end of his marriage. As his wife watched a
World Cup match at their Clapham home, Huhne took the call from the News of the
World in another room to learn that he was about to be exposed as a cheating
husband. According to his wife, a shaken Mr Huhne informed her of the affair
when she emerged at half-time. He told the mother of his three children he had
30 minutes to kill the story - so he went to his study, decided to leave her,
and scribbled a few words to stave off the media clamour. "I am in a serious
relationship with [press secretary] Carina Trimingham and I am separating from
my wife," he wrote. Then he went to the gym.

Now Mr Huhne's political career is over, at the age of 58. Although the
allegation that his former wife took penalty points for him would have left some
damage even if he had been cleared, he would probably have returned to the
Cabinet before the 2015 election. Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, is seen
as the man most likely to take over if Mr Clegg decides to stand down before the
next election - a subject of speculation among Liberal Democrats, though Mr
Clegg dismisses it. But if Mr Huhne had been acquitted, he would have been a
very strong contender. "He has always networked hard to win friends and allies,"
said one party insider. "Vince is a bit of a lone wolf."

Huhne's ambition was evident five years ago when he battled it out for the party
leadership with Mr Clegg. His campaign described his rival as "Calamity Clegg".
Mr Huhne denied knowledge of it but the damage was done. Although Mr Clegg won
by 511 votes, about 1,300 postal votes arrived too late and Mr Huhne might well
have won if they had been allowed to count. Despite this setback, he knuckled
down to work under Mr Clegg. They have been friends for 20 years and Mr Huhne
attended Mr Clegg's wedding.

Speculation that the Deputy Prime Minister will secretly be pleased he is gone
is wide of the mark, his aides insist. Mr Clegg needs everyone he can muster as
he tries to drag his party from one of protest to credible power-sharer.

Conservatives will not shed many tears at Mr Huhne's demise - or the prospect of
a winnable by-election, the first contest between coalition partners in modern
times, that might just transform David Cameron's standing in his own party when
many MPs doubt he can lead them to victory in the general election in 2015.

Mr Huhne's confrontational style round the Cabinet table did not go down well
with the Tories. Prophetically, the former journalist and economist said in 2010
that the Government should not be "lashed to the mast" of its spending cuts if
the medicine was not working, and acknowledged the prospect of the double-dip
recession that duly arrived.

He accused the Tories of resorting to "Goebbels-style" personal attacks on Mr
Clegg during the referendum campaign on the alternative vote. He also branded Mr
Cameron "Billy no mates" when the PM vetoed an EU fiscal pact. And when Cabinet
table criticism quickly made it into the public domain, it was seen by Tories as
an attempt by Mr Huhne to position himself as an alternative to Mr Clegg.

That is not how Mr Clegg viewed it. Although some of the attacks on the Tories
were freelance operations by Mr Huhne, others were cleared in advance. "He was
the hard cop, to Nick Clegg's soft cop," one Huhne ally said yesterday.

As Energy and Climate Change Secretary, Mr Huhne clashed with George Osborne,
who sought to dilute the Government's green commitments. After one Cabinet
outburst, the Chancellor told Mr Huhne he was not prepared to be treated by a
fellow minister acting as if he was "Jeremy Paxman on Newsnight".

After a successful career as a business and economics journalist on papers
including The Independent, Mr Huhne started a City ratings agency in 1994 in an
office comprising only himself and a phone. He built up a business that made him
a millionaire. The same drive is still there today, but will eventually have to
be channelled into something outside politics.

CHRIS HUHNE

TIMELINE

June 1999: Elected MEP for South-east England.

March, 2003: His vehicle is caught speeding in Essex.

May 2005: Enters Parliament as MP for Eastleigh in Hampshire and is appointed
Treasury spokesman.

January 2006: Stands against Sir Menzies Campbell who beats him for Lib Dem
leadership.

October 2007: A second failed Lib Dem leadership bid. Nick Clegg wins by 511
votes.

May 2010: Becomes the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change.

June 2010: Affair with Carina Trimingham exposed, ending his _26-year marriage
to Vicky Pryce.

May 2011: Denies he asked someone to take his speeding points.

February 2012: Huhne and Pryce charged with perverting the course of justice.
Huhne stands down.

June 2012: Pryce pleads not guilty to the charge.

Yesterday: Huhne changes his plea to guilty, resigns as MP.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

The EU has changed Britain - and mostly for the better;
EU referendum

BYLINE: MARY DEJEVSKY

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1014 words


The irony remains delicious. Europe House in Smith Square, where the European
Commission and the European Parliament have their joint London headquarters, is
the very building - the former Conservative Party Central Office - where
Margaret Thatcher celebrated her election victories. And when it was officially
inaugurated in its new guise, a little over two years ago, much fun was had by
the assembled Europhiles speculating how the Foreign Secretary might contrive
not to be photographed beneath the European flag - public buildings in the UK
being almost unique in the EU in not flying the blue and gold confection
alongside the national flag.

So there were plenty of ghosts at the party when the troika of prominent British
Europhiles chose Europe House for the launch of their proto-Yes campaign this
week. Ken Clarke (Conservative, minister without portfolio), Lord Mandelson
(Labour, former EU commissioner and spin doctor supreme) and Danny Alexander
(Liberal Democrat, chief secretary to the Treasury) are jointly fronting the
Centre for British Influence, which will argue the case for the UK to stay in -
when, or if, David Cameron gets around to holding his promised In/Out referendum
on the European Union.

Talk about low-key, though. The very name, the Centre for British Influence,
makes the new group sound almost like an affiliate of Ukip. There are outright
anti-EU organisations that sound more engaged with Europe than this. If the CBI
- an unfortunate, or perhaps deliberate, overlap - is to be the kernel of a
future Yes campaign, it looks awfully like a lobbying effort by stealth. Is the
thinking perhaps that a below-the-radar approach is the only one that will
persuade British voters to grasp the pro-EU message?

In fact, this might not be a bad strategy. Not only because polls have, until
recently, shown a rise in pro-Europe sentiment only when the subject leaves the
headlines, but because - rather like the EU planting its flag discreetly on
London's enemy territory - the EU's impact on Britain has been so gradual as to
be barely perceptible. Seen overall, however, from the perspective of the past
40 years, it has been enormous, and almost entirely beneficial.

You could argue that it is hard to separate the influence of the EU from the
general process of internationalisation that has accompanied improvements in
transport and communications. But for a glimpse of how the UK might have
developed - or not - without membership of the EU, or the European Economic
Community as it was, you might consider Australia as it was 20 years ago, before
it reconciled itself culturally to its geography. It was self-absorbed and
seemingly content with its lack of ambition, its housing frozen in time and its
tasteless English food. Just as we were.

It took Britain's entry into the EU, and the ending of Commonwealth trade ties,
to force Australia back on to its own - immensely rich - resources. The same
process forced Britain to discover its European self. Closer to home, you could
take Malta; 20 years ago, it was introspective, parochial and potentially the
object of a tussle between the UK and the Maghreb. Now, it is identifiably,
positively, part of Europe.

Many benefits of EU membership are tangible, and Britain has not been excluded.
There is money for infrastructure projects, which - unlike most EU countries -
we choose not to announce with grateful placards. And there is the mass of
common standards to be met, which make us part of a bloc that has become a
global regulatory force. To Eurosceptics this is Brussels "red tape"; we might
rather describe it as an entry ticket to civilisation.

But the greatest change for the better from our four decades inside the EU has
to do with the country's general outlook. Membership has given the Scots and the
Welsh a sense of security that allows them to affirm their national identity in
a positive way they were not able to before - an effect that could also be seen
in the smaller accession countries. It may eventually do the same for the
English. Most of all, though, by exposing Britons to other Europeans and vice
versa, it has made us individually, and collectively, more aware of how other
Europeans do things, and what we could do better, too.

It has socialised us to an extent many have perhaps not realised. Join the queue
to board the Eurostar at St Pancras station, or line up at the easyJet departure
lounge at almost any airport in the land, and you will meet a European world,
which seems normal and familiar, but would not have been a generation ago.

The difference is not about food or café culture, or the arrival of Zara or
Novotel - though the EU has improved our quality of life in all these respects.
Nor is it about language per se; Britons retain a foolish pride in their
hopelessness at foreign languages. What has changed is our awareness and
acceptance of the different European accents and mores. I still remember that
one girl in my junior school class went on holiday to Spain. It was such a
novelty that the teacher had us all making a model bullring. And now? There can
be no return to that parochialism. Not only because European consciousness is
now lodged inside our heads - yes, even in the head of Nigel Farage - but
because our friends and neighbours will do their utmost to prevent it.

Since the start of the UK's latest in/out spasm around a year ago, I have lost
count of the diplomats in London who have asked, not in glee, but in
trepidation, whether it is really possible that Britain could leave the EU. They
include Europeans, of course, but also Chinese, Japanese, Russians and, not
least, Americans. The warning from Philip Gordon, of the US State Department,
followed by President Obama's telephone appeal to David Cameron - made public by
the White House - should have left no one in any doubt. Britain's strength, its
international influence and its 21st-century identity are perceived by the
outside world, above all, as European. That is how others see us. It is also,
deep down, how tomorrow's Britons will see themselves.

m.dejevsky@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Clarke warns Cameron of 'fatal mistake' of EU opt-out;
Leading pro-European MPs unite to launch cross-party campaign group

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 483 words


Kenneth Clarke warned last night that it would be a "fatal mistake" for Britain
to leave the European Union as he cast doubt on whether the referendum promised
by David Cameron would take place.

The Minister without Portfolio and leading pro-European Tory urged the Prime
Minister to be "positive" in his negotiations with the EU, saying that would
secure a better deal for the UK.

In his first public comments since Mr Cameron announced an in/out referendum by
the end of 2017 if he wins the next election, Mr Clarke said: "It is in our
vital national interest that we avoid the fatal mistake that would be a No vote
if and when a referendum is held in the next few years."

His use of the word "if" suggests that he believes the talks on a new EU treaty
may take longer than Mr Cameron envisages - a view shared by several other EU
nations.

Speaking at the launch of a new cross-party group, the Centre for British
Influence, Mr Clarke vowed that Tory pro-Europeans would mount a long overdue
fightback. "The case has not been made properly for British membership of the EU
for many years. The time has obviously now come for us to put the case more
strongly and more coherently," he said.

Mr Clarke, who will help Mr Cameron try to win a new EU-US trade deal, praised
Margaret Thatcher's "bold and positive" approach in creating the European single
market. "There is a huge potential prize out there for the UK if only we focus
our attention and influence in any future negotiations on the positive things
that really matter. We need to concentrate on what we are in favour of, and not
just what we are against," he said.

Danny Alexander, the Liberal Democrat Chief Treasury Secretary, told the group:
"It should be obvious to all that we are more powerful negotiating from inside
Europe than from the sidelines??? The idea that we should extract ourselves from
the bulk of EU obligations is nonsensical."

Lord Mandelson, Labour's former Business Secretary and a former European
Commissioner, said Eurosceptics had "been allowed to get away with murder"
through lies and false propaganda. "The pro-Europeans have bided our time. Now
we must unbide our time," he said.

Peter Wilding, the new centre's director, said: "Many British people think their
country is powerless in Europe. This is fundamentally wrong and unpatriotic.
Britain helped create modern Europe, our allies want us in and it is time we
finished the job."

Earlier William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, told a Commons debate on Europe:
"British membership of a reformed competitive EU is strongly in our national
interest. It's our responsibility as one of the leading members of the EU to
press for reforms that must happen if the EU is to succeed in this century; more
competitiveness, flexibility, democratic accountability and fairness for
countries both in the eurozone and outside it. All those will benefit the UK and
the EU as a whole."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 29, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

It'll take more than a bad weather forecast to keep immigration down;
Immigration

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1124 words


So here's the problem. On January 1 next year any and every Bulgarian and
Romanian becomes free to work in the UK, when the employment curbs on citizens
of the so-called "A2 accession countries" are lifted throughout the European
Union. Yet, following the grotesque underestimate by the Labour government of
the numbers of Poles and other East European citizens who would take advantage
of the same right when it was granted in 2004, there is a mood of near panic in
ministerial circles at the public reaction should there be a further tidal wave
of immigration from the east.

The Conservatives had made a manifesto pledge to "cap net immigration", its
response to the fact that this had become, according to pollsters, the single
issue - apart from the economy - which most concerned the population. Yet this
pledge was an absurdity, when it was clear that there was nothing any British
government could legally do to limit immigration from within the EU, which, of
course, now included Romania and Bulgaria.

So, as I say, it has a problem. Never fear, some bright spark in Whitehall has
come up with a cunning plan. According to newspaper reports, the Government is
considering the launch of an advertising campaign aimed at discouraging
Romanians and Bulgarians from the belief that life in the UK will be a bed of
roses. Suggestions of the content include the observation that it is cold over
here; and that out-of-work benefits are not immediately available to all new
immigrants.

The best and brightest in Whitehall will have to do better than that if they
want to persuade the most miserable or ambitious people of those countries that
they would be better off staying put. In Romania and Bulgaria, the only state
benefit available is child benefit - of around £3.50 a week. As for the weather:
my wife has made trips to Bulgaria for many years for a charity concerned with
institutionalised children there, and she describes the climate as "the most
unforgiving I have ever encountered in Europe".

Anyway, the would-be scriptwriters of the public information film "Britain - not
as nice as you thought" need to contact their colleagues at the Foreign Office,
which is still busy telling the citizens of the "A2" countries just how crazy
they would be not to want to come here. Log on to the website of the British
embassy in Bucharest and you will find what our Government calls "The GREAT
campaign" which, it says, is "promoting Britain as one of the best places to
visit, live, work [and] study". So what should our spokesmen say now? "Sorry,
people of Romania; when we said all those things, we didn't realise that this
might actually make you want to stay here for any length of time. Just come over
here to do a bit of shopping - Harvey Nicks, Harrods, that would be nice - and
then dash back to Bucharest where you'll be so much warmer."

In fact, the Government's concern about immigration, while being unable to do
anything about intra-EU population movement, has meant it has concentrated its
discouragement disproportionately on those from outside the EU who really do
only want to come here to shop.

Chinese citizens wanting to visit the UK are now required, in order to get their
visa, to fill out a nine-page form in English, visit an immigration authority,
and have fingerprints taken - all for a fee. This might not be unconnected with
the fact that currently eight times as many Chinese tourists visit France as
they do Great Britain. Visit Britain, which is trying to persuade the Government
to be less obstructive, points out that the typical Chinese tourist spends three
times more than the average foreign visitor; while one leading British retailer
complained bitterly last week that "the Home Office has this idea that most
Chinese will either go into the cockle-picking business on the south coast or go
into Chinatown and never be seen again. The Chinese have a huge appetite to want
to spend money here but they can't get in... they revere and respect the UK but
feel they are being treated like criminals by the authorities."

Similarly, the Government has implemented a cap on the number of skilled workers
from outside the EU that British-based companies can employ and has clamped down
dramatically on the numbers of non-EU citizens who come here to study - even
though the families of such young people are paying substantial sums to British
colleges and universities for the privilege. Again, it is hard to avoid the
impression that in order to try to meet its immigration manifesto pledge, while
being unable to do anything about Romanian and Bulgarian migrants - whose likely
number it can only guess - the Government is discriminating against the very
groups who might actually bring the most benefit to our economy.

This is not an argument against the benefits that have accrued from the earlier
wave of Polish and other East European labour. Only a tiny minority of them have
resorted to living on out-of-work benefits and the vast majority have been
energetic and hard-working contributors to the British economy. There is no good
academic evidence that, in their overall effect, they have made unemployment
among the indigenous population higher than it would otherwise have been,
although some evidence that their presence has depressed wages at the bottom of
the market, while increasing them at the upper end - a reason why the well-to-do
tend to be less opposed to immigration than those lower down the income scale.

This, in turn, explains why so many traditional Labour voters deserted the party
at the last election; and why Ed Miliband a fortnight ago conceded that the
Labour government had "not been sufficiently alive to people's concerns" over
immigration. His party, however, has no proposals designed to address this
concern, other than to tell those concerned that it feels their pain. David
Cameron, it is said, does have a big idea: to put migration into the UK from the
rest of the EU on the list of "competencies" which he wants to restore to
domestic control, as part of the as yet non-existent renegotiation with our
European partners.

He can forget it: unfettered movement of labour is one of the so-called four
freedoms of the Single Market (along with goods, capital and services). There is
no chance that we will be allowed to "unpick" that treaty, signed back in 1988
by Margaret Thatcher. As Ukip's Nigel Farage will go hoarse telling the British
electorate over the next few years, if the public really cares deeply about
limiting migration from within the now 27-country EU, it will have to vote "out"
in the referendum mooted for 2017.

For now, there's nothing for the Government to do except warn about how wet it
is here. But then everyone knew that, anyway.

d.lawson@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 29, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Second Edition

Most Labour and Tory voters say EU vote would be bad for the economy;
Survey reveals fear that long build-up to poll creates uncertainty

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 694 words


A majority of Conservative and Labour voters believe that the delayed in/out
referendum on Europe promised by David Cameron is likely to harm the economy,
according to a ComRes survey for The Independent.

Although the Prime Minister's pledge has made three in 10 people more likely to
vote Conservative, half the public share concerns highlighted by Labour, the
Liberal Democrats and some businessmen about announcing a possible referendum
that would not take place until 2017.

Some 49 per cent of people agree the delay is likely to result in economic harm
because of the uncertainty it creates for companies and investors. Some 32 per
cent disagree with this statement.

But 52 per cent of Conservative supporters and 54 per cent of current Labour
voters believe the delay is likely to harm the economy.

Tories will welcome the ComRes finding that 30 per cent of the public say they
are more likely to back the Conservatives as a result of Mr Cameron's referendum
promise. Some 57 per cent disagree. One in six Labour supporters (16 per cent)
and almost four in 10 supporters of Ukip are more likely to vote Tory.

But not all Conservatives are impressed by last week's announcement: 28 per cent
of current Tory supporters and 35 per cent of people who voted Tory at the last
general election are not more likely to back the party after the referendum
promise.

The poll suggests Ed Miliband could reap an electoral benefit if he matched Mr
Cameron's pledge.

More than one in four voters (27 per cent) would be more likely to vote Labour
if the party promised a Europe referendum, while 59 per cent disagree.

This finding is bound to increase the pressure on Mr Miliband from within his
party to offer the public a vote. He is determined to resist it, while not
ruling out a referendum forever.

A smaller proportion (22 per cent) would be more likely to vote Liberal Democrat
if the party offered a referendum, with 64 per cent disagreeing. But a quarter
(24 per cent) of current Tory supporters would be more likely to back the
Liberal Democrats.

The Prime Minister's referendum pledge does not appear to have dented Ukip's
appeal. The anti-EU party is up one point to 10 per cent since last month,
drawing level with the Liberal Democrats, who are unchanged on 10 per cent.

Twelve per cent of people who voted Tory in 2010 say they would vote Ukip now,
enough to harm Mr Cameron's prospects at the 2015 election if that is still the
case then. Men (14 per cent) are more likely than women (five per cent) to
support Ukip.

Labour's lead over the Conservatives has dropped from 10 to seven points since
last month.

Labour is now on 39 per cent (down two points), the Conservatives 32 per cent
(up one point). Other parties are on nine per cent (down one point). These
figures would give Labour an overall majority of 84 at a general election.

A poll in France by the research agency BVA shows that a majority (52 per cent)
of French people favour Britain leaving the EU, while 48 per cent want it to
stay.

Downing Street confirmed yesterday that ministers are looking at measures to
curb immigration from Bulgaria and Romania when existing controls are lifted at
the end of this year. The most likely option is to restrict the right of people
from the two EU countries to claim state benefits in Britain.

Some ministers want to curb their entry rights by declaring an "emergency" but
this is unlikely to happen after legal advice saying that the right to free
movement in the EU should prevail.

ComRes interviewed 1,002 GB adults by telephone between January 25 and 27. Data
was weighted to be demographically representative of all GB adults. Data was
also weighted by past vote recall. ComRes is a member of the British Polling
Council and abides by its rules.

POLL RESULTS

Delaying a referendum on Britain's EU membership until 2017 is likely to result
in economic harm because of the uncertainty it creates for companies and
investors

49% Agree

32% Disagree

19% Don't know

I am more likely to vote Conservative as a result of David Cameron's promise of
a referendum on Britain's EU membership to be held after the next election

30% Agree

57% Disagree

13% Don't know

Source: ComRes/Independent

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 29, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Total victory' for Iceland over UK in saga of Icesave depositors;
European court rules that Nordic nation does not have to compensate Britain for
bailout

BYLINE: BEN CHU Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 507 words


The Icelandic government was justified in refusing to compensate Britain for the
state expense of bailing out depositors in Icesave, the court of the European
Free Trade Association (EFTA) ruled yesterday.

In a surprise conclusion to a long-running and acrimonious saga, the court said
pan-European depositor protection rules do not require nation states in the
throes of a financial crisis to honour fully the overseas liabilities of their
failed commercial banks.

The government in Reykjavik said yesterday that it took "considerable
satisfaction" from the ruling by the EFTA. Ministers in the Nordic nation of
just 320,000 people had been preparing for defeat.

Icesave's parent bank, Landsbanki, collapsed in 2008 at the height of the global
financial crisis, threatening the savings of tens of thousands of UK residents
who had opened high-interest-bearing online accounts. Iceland's bank deposit
scheme at that time did not have sufficient funds to compensate all its overseas
depositors.

The former Chancellor, Alistair Darling, in the interests of domestic financial
stability, paid out £3.5bn to these savers to ensure that they did not lose a
penny, and then demanded that the government in Reykjavik pick up the bill. The
Dutch government, which also bailed out its citizens who had opened Icesave
accounts, did the same.

At first, the Icelandic administration agreed to transfer the money - which was
close to half of the nation's annual GDP - but then reversed itself after the
decision was rejected by two referendums in Iceland in March 2010 and April
2011. The British government's use of anti-terrorist legislation to freeze
Landsbanki's UK assets in 2008 after the bailout created widespread anger in
Iceland.

The ruling by the EFTA, which has links with the European Union, does not mean
the UK government will not be compensated for the expense. Iceland has so far
used the liquidated assets of Landsbanki to pay out 90 per cent of what foreign
governments are owed. This process will continue, the Icelandic foreign ministry
said yesterday. But the ruling does establish the principle that national
governments are not always responsible for the overseas liabilities of their
banks that fail.

The court's judges said that the deposit protection directive "aims expressly to
preclude an excessive shifting to the state of the costs arising from a major
banking failure". Since the Landsbanki debacle, the rules governing cross-border
banking in Europe have been modified. EU member states are today required to
guarantee deposits of up to Euro 100,000 (£85,000) for each saver.

The ruling was the cause of relief in Iceland. "Icesave is now no longer a
stumbling block to Iceland's economic recovery," said the government. "This case
has been particularly difficult to handle both nationally and internationally,
and has occasioned, among other things, considerable delays in the
implementation of the government's economic programme."

Iceland's Prime Minister, Johanna Sigurdardottir, called the verdict a "total
victory for Iceland".

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 28, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Contenders vie to lead World Trade Organisation

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 225 words


The race to succeed Pascal Lamy as director general of the World Trade
Organisation hots up this week as nine contenders make opening pitches to its
157 international members.

The candidates, who include academics, politicians and diplomats from Indonesia,
Jordan and Brazil, will be looking to impress members by outlining the
challenges to the 18-year-old body dedicated to opening up the world to free
trade.

Mr Lamy has held the top job for two terms, totalling eight years. His successor
must be named by May.

The British Government will be hopeful that Mr Lamy's replacement will be more
upbeat on the UK's future trading relationship with Europe.

Last week, the 65-year-old Frenchman was guarded about David Cameron's decision
to call a referendum over EU membership. "Whether a change in the relationship
between the UK and Europe would change the trade relationship remains to be
seen," he said.

This is the most crowded field ever assembled to take over the WTO job and, for
the first time, includes three women.

Ladbrokes named Tim Groser and Anabel Gonzalez (pictured), the trade ministers
of New Zealand and Costa Rica, as joint favourites at 3-1.

Mr Groser is thought to be favoured among developed nations, but countries like
India are believed to be pushing for someone from an emerging economy as the
balance of global financial power shifts.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Mr Miliband can afford to be bolder on Europe;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 608 words


Labour's leadership has helped to make the past few days easier for David
Cameron than they should have been. Normally the party's media operation is as
disciplined as it was when Alastair Campbell ruled. Shadow cabinet members stick
to a message with machine-like rigidity, even if their words are light on policy
detail. In the leadership's response to David Cameron's speech on Europe,
though, the opposite has applied.

As far as is possible in a fast-moving situation, Labour has a policy on Europe
and referendums that is sensible and fairly principled. Yet the presentation of
its position since Mr Cameron's speech has been shambolic. At Prime Minister's
Questions, Ed Miliband appeared to rule out an in/out referendum. Within hours,
his office clarified that he only meant he was ruling one out now. Later, on
BBC's Newsnight, his spokeswoman on Europe, Emma Reynolds, appeared at once to
rule one out and possibly rule one in. The sequence helped to make Mr Cameron
appear more decisive than he had been and Labour more incoherent than it was.

So far as can be divined from these confused statements, the party leadership
argues that promising an in/out referendum so long before its projected date
will cause instability and deter business from long-term investment. While it
does not see the case, or the need, for such a referendum, Labour cannot exclude
holding one at all, given the state of flux in the eurozone and more widely in
the European Union.

Of course, there is another crudely expedient reason why the Labour leadership
refuses to rule out a referendum in the future. It might be forced to offer one
in order to win an election - or not to lose one, if Mr Cameron's offer proves
to be overwhelmingly popular in more than two years' time. This is a perfectly
reasonable position for an opposition party to take, but its leaders need to
work out a way of explaining this approach in a confident, accessible manner. In
opposition, words are the only weapon available.

Mr Miliband deserves some credit for not acting with wholehearted opportunism by
pre-empting Mr Cameron and offering a referendum earlier. In the short term,
such a move would have unsettled the Prime Minister, made restive Conservative
MPs even more insurrectionary and won Mr Miliband plaudits in the same
Eurosceptic newspapers that are now cheering Mr Cameron. Such an initiative
would also have been pathetically weak, as Mr Miliband - quite rightly - does
not believe that a referendum is in the national interest. Nor, if he were to
win the election, would he want to be diverted by having to win a plebiscite or
face the catastrophic consequences of defeat. He has chosen the bolder course
and one, in the medium term, that is also in his best interests; it moves him on
to common ground with the Liberal Democrats and many business leaders.
Currently, though, this common ground is almost as ill defined as Mr Cameron's
leap into the unknown.

The Prime Minister's speech on Europe has raised many other big questions. For
the first time since 1975, there is doubt about whether Britain will remain part
of the EU, uncertainty about whether Mr Cameron would lead a campaign to stay in
or pull out, and imprecision about what he would seek to negotiate if he won the
next election - a prospect that is highly uncertain itself. For a single speech
to generate such a destabilising set of questions presented the Opposition with
an opportunity. So far, though, Labour has only shown how nervous it is about
challenging Mr Cameron's Euroscepticism. Mr Miliband needs to summon up his
courage, lay his Europhile cards clearly on the table and proceed from there.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

They cleaned up the Royal Marriage Act, but forgot one very important thing;
A POLITICAL LIFE

BYLINE: CHRIS BRYANT

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 946 words


The British constitution has more nooks and crannies than my great-grandmother's
loft, and Parliament has been rummaging around in one of the more obscure ones
this week: the royal succession. Two things we all agree - the bypassing of
girls in favour of younger boys and the stipulation that neither the monarch nor
an heir to the throne can marry a Catholic (or, in the deliberately offensive
language of the Act of Settlement, a "papist") are anachronisms we can dispense
with.

But the constitution is a bit like a coarsely woven jumper. Pull one yarn and
the whole thing could unravel. So it's a bit depressing that in the debate it
was abundantly clear that the ministers had not really thought through a third
element they have put in the Bill, replacing the Royal Marriages Act 1772. This
Act was certainly a bad law, brought in at the insistence of George III, who was
furious that two of his brothers had married inappropriately. Thenceforth anyone
in line to the throne had to get his permission to marry. It didn't work. Within
a decade, George's son, the Prince of Wales, married a Catholic, Maria
Fitzherbert, and since he had not gained royal assent, the marriage was
automatically null and void.

The idea that a head of state can decide whom people can marry is a tawdry
feudal leftover, but the problem is that the Government has decided to retain a
bizarre provision that the next six people in line to the throne will still have
to get the monarch's permission to marry, which can be refused. That's weird
enough. But in addition it's changed the old Act, which said that if you didn't
get royal consent your marriage was null and void, with the provision that if
you don't get consent you lose your place in the succession. If that had been
the case in the 18th century, George III's refusal to consent to his son's
marriage would have prevented him from becoming George IV.

This runs completely against our history. From the earliest times, Parliament,
not the monarch, has decided the succession, as when Edward II and Richard II
were forced to relinquish the crown, when Henry VIII died, when James II fled
the country and when the end of the Stuart line was imminent. Even when Edward
VIII abdicated, Parliament had to pass a new law the next day to allow him to do
so and settle his brother on the throne.

Constitutional law has to expect the unexpected, but this ill-thought through
Bill will leave the succession to the caprice of the monarch's preference for
in-laws, as a future monarch could deliberately bar a child or a sibling from
inheriting merely by refusing consent to marry - and then the European Court of
Human Rights would intervene.

Gerrymandering shouldn't add up

The whip for next Tuesday doesn't sound very exciting: "Consideration of Lords
Amendments to the Electoral Registration Bill". But the Commons will be very
full and the whips will be circling the corridors like angry flies, because
beneath the parliamentary lingo lurks an amendment that would delay the
Government's new gerrymandered constituencies until after the next election.

Consider the arithmetic. There are now 303 Tory MPs. The combined Labour and Lib
Dem number is 302. Excluding the Speaker and his deputies, there are 27 other
MPs in eight parties, and three independents. One missed flight, one angry
encounter, could make all the difference to how the next election is to be
fought.

My confession to Glenda Jackson

Glenda Jackson, left, has told her local party that she won't be standing again
in 2015. I wrote a biography of Glenda in 1997, but one of the stories I didn't
include happened when I was working for the Labour Party as Frank Dobson's agent
in the next-door seat in 1991. Glenda was hoping to take the seat off the new
Tory candidate, Oliver Letwin, and Frank's daughter Sally (who was working for
Glenda) and I were keen to get as many Hampstead and Highgate party members to
help with the campaign as possible. So we suggested to Glenda that she might
send them all a Christmas card signed by her.

She wasn't keen at first, but agreed instead to write personal notes to all
2,000 members. It took her the best part of a week, and when she had finished we
stamped them and left them overnight in boxes in the office. Unfortunately, that
night a pipe in the upstairs flat burst, and when Sally came in the next day a
torrent of water had ruined them all. We never dared tell Glenda, not even when
she told us that not a single Hampstead member had thanked her, the rude
so-and-sos.

Fox is out of his box

In the last 1975 referendum, Harold Wilson refused to tell even his staff how he
was voting. On the day, his senior policy adviser, Bernard Donoghue, finally got
an answer. He had voted yes. Why? "Because I don't want that lot [Tony Benn and
Enoch Powell] running Britain for the next 20 years." I thought of Wilson as the
Tories cheered Cameron on Wednesday. Like the prisoners in Beethoven's opera
Fidelio, they looked shocked to have lost their shackles, but Bill Cash, Peter
Bone and Sir Gerald Howarth - these are the people now pulling the strings of
the Tory party.

And Liam Fox. Since he resigned in November 2011, he has asked just 10 questions
and made two short speeches. But there he was on Monday, beaming ear to ear,
obviously thinking he's in with a shout of a return to the Cabinet. Moments
later, up popped Andrew Mitchell, speaking for the first time since cycling into
the distance, and positively shining with the ring of self-vindication. On
Wednesday, Fox was letting everyone overhear him as he gleefully told an
entourage of young Tory acolytes that Cameron had just won the next election.
People, beware.

Twitter: @ChrisBryantMP

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Meet the gladiator;
Mary Beard She brought classics to the masses. Then an appearance on Question
Time exposed her to the evils of the web. By Boyd Tonkin

BYLINE: Boyd Tonkin

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1517 words


Mary Beard has a taste for Roman sauce. Whether on her entertaining "A Don's
Life" blog, in books that wed intellectual rigour to narrative panache, or TV
history series in which the silver-maned scholar deciphers the graffiti of a
Pompeii tavern or the brags on memorial stelae in Rome, the professor of
classics at Cambridge University rips into the ribald and even obscene side of
ancient culture with infectious glee. Yet nothing in her career as this
generation's finest populariser of the classical world will have prepared her
for the online Cloaca Maxima of bile and filth that engulfed her last week.

A dispute with an audience member, heated but short, over Eastern European
immigration during BBC1's Question Time in Boston, Lincolnshire, not only
triggered controversy. That she knows how to handle, gladly accepting her role
as "the academic who argues". Beard herself admits to tweeting "rudely and
inadvertently". But the torrent of psychological sewage that flowed over her
from internet trolls, notably on the "Don't Start Me Off" abuse site (which then
shut itself down), was something else again. As she wrote in a blog commentary
on the posts' "gobsmacking" misogyny, with their "brutal sexism" and "classic
signs of vile playground bullying", the trolls "discussed my pubic hair???
whether I need rogering??? the capaciousness of my vagina, and the plan to plant
a d*** in my mouth". Welcome to the brave new world of "democratic" online
media, in which the anonymous potty-mouthed sociopath is king.

In 2000, Beard wrote a biography that focused on the early career of Jane
Harrison, the Cambridge classicist-archaeologist who influenced T S Eliot.
Harrison's work a century ago had pioneered the social and anthropological turn
in classics that, for millions of viewers of her BBC series Meet the Romans,
Beard now embodies. Like Beard, Harrison saw passionate flesh and blood beneath
the ancient marble, detecting that "somewhere underneath the calm, shining,
rational exterior of the classical world is a mass of weird, seething
irrationality". What's the Latin for plus ça change? As in the days of Julia
Augusti Filia, only daughter of the Emperor Augustus, a witty and forthright
woman visible in public life must brace herself for an avalanche of sexual
slurs.

Born in 1955, the daughter of a "raffish" Shrewsbury architect and a
headteacher, Mary Beard went to Cambridge to study classics at the (then and
now) all-female Newnham College. Her previous education came at the single-sex,
direct-grant Shrewsbury High School: ie, a partially state-funded selective
school with a variable mix of fee-paying and "free" places, the now-defunct
sector that provided a disproportionate source of Oxbridge high-fliers. In the
mid-1970s, only six Cambridge colleges accepted female undergraduates; only
three of those were mixed. By 1988, the last all-male bastion had fallen. It
sounds medieval, but in that era much of Cambridge student politics consisted
not in improving gender equality within the university but in trying to give
women the chance to come at all. Having to fight such basic feminist battles
will leave an indelible mark.

For most undergraduates, Cambridge life in the mid- to late-1970s had nothing to
do with the boaters-and-Bollinger "Oxbridge myth" that Beard has so effectively
debunked. Earnest discussions of the latest earthquakes in academic or political
life took place in austerely furnished college rooms, either drastically under-
or overheated, in scruffy street-corner pubs, in cheapo Greek eateries - and,
often enough, in dank Victorian terraced houses which their occupiers
nonetheless campaigned noisily to save from the developer's wrecking ball.

Plain living and high thinking, according to the somewhat puritanical Cambridge
ideal? Up to a point: Professor Beard, and those of us who were more or less her
contemporaries, matured intellectually in an era of across-the-board crisis and
reform within politics, culture and education. It felt, at least in the sort of
circles within which she moved, like a pretty politicised student body: keen on
social activism and institutional renewal; desperate to dodge the cliché charge
of ivory-tower elitism. Such a grounding might well impel a scholar with a
conscience not only towards the Times Literary Supplement (where Beard has been
classics editor since 1992) and the broadsheet review pages, but TV
documentaries and - as we saw, in spectacular fashion last week - the
high-impact pulpit of a show like Question Time.

In the sphere of ideas, fresh breezes blew in from the Continent and changed the
direction of study across the humanities - even in classics, then the most
conservative discipline of all. Beard's books, such as the outstanding Pompeii:
the Life of a Roman Town in 2008, embed in their approach a bottom-up vision of
history and society; an attention to everyday life and its complex rituals; a
presiding concern with the experience of outsiders (women, slaves, migrants),
and a focus on language and its relation to politics, family and social customs.
At the leading edge of British academic life, these theories and methods of the
"moderns" rapidly trounced the "ancients". Fairly quickly, they achieved
hegemony - even in the scholarship of Rome and Greece, for centuries the domain
of the gentleman-pedant but now (as Beard notes) a fiercely meritocratic field.

In her Harrison biography, Beard observed: "People's lives look different at the
start of their career." Equally, successful people often carry the climate of
their youth into eras in which the wind has changed. The progressive tendencies
that became second nature to Beard - and many of the rest of us - in late-1970s
Cambridge conquered many British institutions. In universities, public-sector
bodies, parts of the media, the radical outsiders became insiders. Beard herself
returned to Newnham in 1984 after four years at King's College, London. She
became professor of classics in 2004 (and was awarded an OBE in the New Year
honours list). In 1985, she married, and her experience of bringing up two
children as a professional woman in a sometimes backward institution gave rise
to a frank handbook-cum-polemic. The Good Working Mother's Guide (1989) was her
first solely authored book.

Her role at Cambridge has involved a long-haul effort to widen access and
improve transparency. This push to "normalise" the image of her university has
continued through decades during which - for many educationalists - the loss of
grammar and direct-grant schools loaded the dice even more heavily against the
Oxbridge prospects of smart kids from modest families. Yet, as many such "elite"
institutions slid slowly leftwards, mainstream politics after 1979 moved the
other way.

The radical dons (and pundits and editors) captured some of the commanding
heights - but not enough of the plains beneath. Hence, perhaps, the historic
genesis of the moment on Question Time in Boston on 17 January, when Beard
offered a mild remark about the ability of public services in such a town to
cope with an influx of migrants from Eastern Europe. A local woman, Rachel Bull
(herself the descendant of Polish incomers), made an impassioned denunciation of
Beard's optimism, arguing that social services had been stretched to breaking
point. Beard has written that she is "very OK with Ms Bull", who has equally
made clear that she has no personal quarrel with immigrants. The subsequent row
has little to do with her challenger.

It stems not merely from the pathology of internet trolling, but from the
perception of a gulf between the intellectual leaders of "liberal Britain" and
those who feel alienated by their pieties. Now, we mustn't mistake the trolls
for the territory. Hopeless apologies for men have always felt threatened by
confident women who speak up in the agora. More serious is the belief, or the
illusion, that a progressive minority thinks and speaks against the grain of
popular opinion. Fatefully, Beard's Question Time spat took place on the ground
where these cultural schisms emerge most bitterly: Europe, and immigration. The
EU referendum promised for 2017 means that we face years more of such rhetorical
sniping. For her peers, Beard's place at the eye of this storm prompts some
knotty questions, however grotesque the abuse she has suffered. Yes, from
seminar room to TV studio, we won plenty of battles. But will we lose the war?

A LIFE IN BRIEF

Born: Winifred Mary Beard, 1 January 1955, Much Wenlock, Shropshire

Family: Only child of Roy, an architect, and Joyce, a headmistress. She married
art historian Robin Cormack in 1985; they have two children.

Education: Shrewsbury High School, Classics MA, then PhD, at Cambridge.

Career: Has written more than 10 books on ancient history. Since 1982 she has
been classics editor of the TLS and became professor of classics at Cambridge in
2004. Her TV series include Pompeii: Life and Death in a Roman Town and Meet the
Romans with Mary Beard.

She says: "Isn't intellectual life about having an argument?"

They say: "A heroine for women." Clare Balding, TV presenter

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

How should we convince Britain to stay in the EU? Has the Labour Party improved
its image?;
The big questions

BYLINE: Answered this week by NEIL KINNOCK

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1017 words


Is Britain heading for the EU exit?

No. British people recognise the reality that, especially in a globalised
economy and in politically insecure times, our country's best interests are
served by being fully and influentially in the EU. The possibility of exit
arises now only because David Cameron is trying to appease Europhobes in the
Tory party with the pledge of an in/out referendum. That is pitiful, not
patriotic. It means unnecessary risks when the UK already has a law requiring a
referendum if a loss of sovereignty is proposed. It won't even harvest votes for
the Tories, any more than the referendum promise won votes for Labour in 1974.
He's just given sensible people from the centre and the left another big reason
for defeating the Tories and stopping this reckless ripping wheeze in its
tracks.

How can Ed Miliband now avoid also offering the British people an in/out
referendum on Europe?

By continuing to demonstrate that specifying an in/out referendum in several
years' time over unclear issues in uncertain conditions with unknown outcomes
maximises economic hazard and minimises political strength. Vital investment
will be deterred by the possibility that the UK could be out of the single
market before 2020; other member states will react against the Tories' "meet our
demands or we quit" menaces. Contrasting with Cameron's concessions to his
militant tendency, Ed Miliband has the courage and common sense to defend the
national interest and make the case for modernising EU reform, not risking
withdrawal.

Could Britain prosper like Norway or Switzerland, trading with Europe but not
bound by every piece of red tape and regulation, and in control of its own
borders?

Norway is in the European Economic Area and obliged to apply EU single-market
regulations and other rules over which it has no influence because it is not a
member state. Through over 200 bilateral treaties with the EU, Switzerland
implements most Union law and, like Norway, contributes to the EU budget while
having no EU legislative power. Both countries are part of the Schengen
agreement and therefore have no border controls with EU member states other than
the UK and Ireland.

How would you go about turning around British public opinion in support of
continued EU membership?

Keep on telling the truth about the multiple economic and political advantages
of EU membership in return for paying less than 1 per cent of our GNP, the risks
and costs of losing them, and the scope for achieving improvement in the EU as a
strong, effective participant. That works. In recent weeks, political leaders in
Britain and other EU countries, President Obama, and senior figures in business
and the unions have voiced clear practical reasons for committed and sustained
UK engagement in the EU, and polls have shown opinion moving positively.
There'll be much more of that - and the facts will beat the phobias.

What was Britain's reputation when you were a European commissioner in Brussels?

In 1995, when I went to the European Commission, people working for the EU in
Brussels were impressed by the quality of British civil servants (that's a
constant), amazed and appalled by the fallacies and falsehoods of the Europhobic
press (ditto), and bemused by a Tory government snarled up in Euroschism (plus
ça change...). Election of the Blair government brought a tide of enthusiasm
which receded with the "red lines" posturing in the grandiose "constitutional
convention" and went out completely with the Iraq war. Affection for Brits has
remained strong.

Do you regret that Tony Blair didn't do more to take on the Eurosceptic press
or, indeed, take Britain into the euro?

From a commanding political position, Tony could - and should - have asserted
his genuine enthusiasm for an active leading UK role in the EU more consistently
and forcefully. That would have benefited the UK and the EU and it would have
been a vigorous - and salutary - rebuff to the Europhobe press. Like Tony, I
favoured - with some qualifications - joining the euro. I was wrong and Gordon
Brown's view that the euro's fundamentals didn't fit the UK was right.

If there is a hung parliament after the next election, is a Labour/Lib Dem
coalition plausible or workable?

It's certain that Labour will fight relentlessly to win an overall majority. All
other ruminations are gossip and guesswork.

Does the Labour Party still suffer from the image problem that dogged your
leadership?

No. Despite the poisonous efforts of parts of the press, it is clear that Labour
is a united, forward-looking party inspired by decent, enlightened values,
committed to practical purposes and policies and fully in touch with the needs
and aspirations of the mainstream majority of people. Ed Miliband shows skill,
imagination, bravery and toughness in his leadership, and he has a very able
team which, like him, is young, energetic and experienced in government.

How big a problem for Labour is it that the Chancellor's shirkers vs strivers
narrative to justify welfare cuts is so popular with voters?

George Osborne's deprive and divide, fool and rule tactics will fail. Skivers
are - rightly - loathed. But people can distinguish between them and those who
have genuine needs and strive to get work, to improve skills and to earn a
decent wage when they have a job. They can also see that slashing the benefits
of those in work and out of work is inefficient as well as unjust because it
simply reduces spending, adds to unemployment, increases damage to families and
communities and multiplies costs to the country.

You are the father-in-law of the Danish prime minister. Can Danish-style
coalition politics ever work in Britain? And how true to life is Borgen?

Managing a three-party coalition is an interesting task in any democracy but,
since the UK doesn't have the Danish PR system, such an election outcome is
unlikely here. We greatly enjoy Borgen. It's an excellent drama, brilliantly
performed. If it were true to life, it would be much less gripping.

Lord Kinnock is a former leader of the Labour Party and a former vice-president
of the European Commission

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Europe's no longer the PM's problem. The economy is;
What will voters be worrying about when they go to the polls in 2015, asks
Andrew Grice. A clue: it won't be Brussels

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 768 words


"We will let sleeping dogs lie," David Cameron is said to have told senior
European Commission figures as Leader of the Opposition. He had no desire to
re-open the Europe issue that had torn his party apart since the Thatcher era.
"If you put two Conservatives in the same room, it does not take them long to
fall out over Europe," he said.

The Eurocrats were pleasantly surprised. They had feared they would soon be
dealing with the most Eurosceptic British Prime Minister since Margaret Thatcher
after Mr Cameron pulled his MEPs out of the European Parliament's mainstream
centre-right group (figurehead A Merkel) and joined a bunch of right-wing
fruitcakes.

This weekend the same senior EU figures are bemused that the same Mr Cameron has
given the sleeping dogs a 10,000-volt shock. His long-delayed speech on Europe
was widely followed in Brussels. Although there were more nods than expected to
the benefits of EU membership, his message was clear: if Britain does not get a
special new deal from the EU by 2017, it will head for the exit. "This is
blackmail," said one Brussels insider.

Why, then, did the Prime Minister who wants his legacy to be the leader who
reformed the EU so Britain can stay in, take a gamble which could leave him as
the man who accidentally took us out? And why whet the appetite of the ravenous
hounds in his own party by suggesting that a whole range of powers could be
returned from the EU to the UK?

This speech took six months to formulate. Mr Cameron, the Chancellor George
Osborne and the Foreign Secretary William Hague worked back from where they
wanted to be at the 2015 election. They judged that, to calm the fractious Tory
pack, they had to split off the hardliners who want to leave the EU from
pragmatic Eurosceptics (as Mr Cameron regards himself) unhappy with the status
quo but who would stay in if the UK got a better deal. They also needed to unite
the Tories at the next election and reduce the threat from the UK Independence
Party at next year's European Parliament elections. The best way, they
calculated, would be to promise an "in/out" referendum after 2015. The trick
seems to have worked, at least in the short term. Some of the 81 Tory rebels who
voted for a referendum last year say they will join Mr Cameron in voting Yes to
remaining in the EU if he gets a good enough deal.

That is significant. But it is still a big "if". Much of the closer integration
in the eurozone can be achieved without the new EU treaty that would give Mr
Cameron more clout in his renegotiation battle. Talks on a new treaty may start
in two or three years. EU sources believe Britain would get some concessions -
such as reforms to the working time directive, safeguards for the City of London
and expansion of the single market in service industries. But they say Mr
Cameron can forget his call to end the EU's "ever-closer union" and a British
opt-out from big areas like the social chapter of workers' rights, seen as an
integral part of the single market Mr Cameron supports.

The Prime Minister wooed EU leaders, particularly Angela Merkel, before his
speech but Downing Street overspun the German Chancellor's response that she was
willing to talk about Britain's wishes. "She wants the UK in for strategic power
reasons to counterbalance the French, but not on the basis of a pick-and-mix
Europe," said one diplomat.

So the Tory dogs will sink their teeth into Mr Cameron if he urges a Yes vote in
the referendum. Some will yap at his heels long before then. "We are going to
have to put more flesh on the bones," said one minister, admitting that Mr
Cameron's renegotiation goals were left vague.

Yet the long-awaited speech, when finally delivered, went as well as the PM
could have hoped. The Tories are divided on EU membership but broadly united on
a referendum. Conversely, Labour is broadly united on EU membership but split on
a referendum. That worked to Mr Cameron's advantage when Ed Miliband forgot the
"never say never" bit of Labour's referendum policy and implied in the Commons
that Labour would never allow one.

The Tories are convinced that Labour's refusal to "trust the people" will play
well for them at the 2015 election. Next Wednesday, the Government has called a
Commons debate on Europe to add to Labour's discomfort.

But just because Mr Cameron has decided to "bang on about Europe," doesn't mean
the whole country will see it as the top issue in 2015. Yesterday's economic
figures are a stark reminder of that. Perhaps next week's Commons debate should
be about the risk of a "triple-dip recession". It's not Europe, stupid - it's
the economy.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 25, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

We risk sliding out of Europe without even wanting to;
WORLD VIEW

BYLINE: ADRIAN HAMILTON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 777 words


It's been a case of the dog that didn't bark. After all the waiting and the
build-up, David Cameron got up, promised an in/out referendum on Britain's EU
membership and no one got very hot under the collar about it, not in Europe, not
in the business community and not in the country at large.

On that at least, Ukip's leader Nigel Farage, is right. This wasn't a speech to
open up the great debate but to close it down. How could it be otherwise? There
is no debate about Europe in Britain at the moment.

Tory backbenchers hate it and that is sufficient for them without making an
argument over it. Businesses are frustrated with it. The British public have
other things on their mind, such as spending cuts, redundancy and the cold.

If Cameron has a reasonable case for saying Britain should reconsider its
membership now, it is that the EU states - or rather the eurozone members - are
moving down a track which will reshape the Continent. That is the very reason,
however, that there is little point starting an argument about repatriating
powers. The eurozone is a project in the making. At this point, no one knows
where precisely it is going to end up, if indeed it survives at all.

If the Government's real concern was the direction it was taking and the fate of
those outside the zone, its obvious interest would be in gathering as many
partners as possible to help shape the outcome.The difficulty of Cameron's
timetable is that Europe's shape is most unlikely to be clear in four or five
years' time, let alone in time for the next election.

The other reason we are not about to embark on a proper debate about Europe, and
probably never will, is that there aren't two sides ready to join battle. Just
as liberalism collapsed under Mrs Thatcher, so the European case is now failing
because its proponents no longer have the self-confidence to fight for it.

The fact that the Government found it easy to rustle up 50 businessmen to sign
up to a letter supporting the Prime Minister's case for repatriation of powers,
but the BBC was forced to go to an Irishman in Davos - the ever forceful Peter
Sutherland, to make the case against him -says it all.

It's not that there aren't the people who believe Britain's continuing
membership of the EU is essential. Even the businessmen signing the letter
baulked, when pressed, at the thought of leaving the Union. No one, as the
contortions over Ed Miliband's stand in the Commons on Wednesday showed,
actually wants to make the case that membership is a good thing. At best, the
argument is made in negative terms of the dire results that will occur if we
leave.

But then the other side is no different. Virtually none of the Eurosceptics is
prepared to outline what they envisage as a Britain outside the Union. All their
argument is in negative terms, too.

That, ultimately, is the question that needs to be addressed if Britain ever
were to have a proper European discussion. What is it we foresee as the future
for our grandchildren, and how do we best position the country to achieve it?

We entered the Common Market without that debate. The opponents of our
membership are right to say so. But you'd have to be very naïve to believe that
we will decide whether to head for the exit with it either.

The danger now is that we will simply slide out of Europe, not because the
public is so keen to leave. None of the opinion polls suggests that voters
believe it a priority. We will drift out simply because the pro-Europeans
haven't the stomach for the fight.

Extremism is a turn-off, even in Israel

Just as the Republicans failed in the US presidential elections by lurching too
far to the right in order to envelop those voters, and David Cameron is trying
to outflank the right over Europe, so Benjamin Netanyahu has come unstuck doing
the same in the Israeli elections, this time on settlements.

The problem, as he has found, is that the right-wing vote doesn't come back
because it is, by the nature, a protest vote while the middle, which can switch
either way, gets frightened off by extremism.

Not that the wider world needs to take that much comfort from the results.
Netanyahu is now more tied to his alliance with Avigdor Lieberman than ever and
has made it clear that he still regards facing down Iran as his line in the sand
for any coalition partners.

The vote, as always, was more concerned with the economy and domestic affairs
than anything to do with Palestine or Tehran. But at least the Israeli public is
showing some consciousness of the risks it is taking with international
isolation, if only the US and EU would show some teeth in their condemnation of
settlement building.

a.hamilton@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 25, 2013 Friday
                                 Second Edition

No point reversing to the 1990s on rail franchising if the model is so flawed;
OUTLOOK

BYLINE: MARK LEFTLY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 937 words


Ah, the 1990s??? MC Hammer, puffa jackets, grunge, Gazza's tears, This Life, the
private finance initiative, negative equity, high interest rates and John Major
desperately clinging on to his premiership.

Why on earth the Coalition is determined to take us back to those years I don't
know, but determined it is.

This is best demonstrated by David Cameron's decision to split the nation
asunder with a referendum on Europe, pandering to the right-wing of his party
and opening up a complicated debate on the incredibly simplistic terms that so
(badly) informed the political rhetoric of the John Major years.

However, as Europhiles unsubtly hint that those who want out of the EU are
jingoistic, while the sceptics depict pro-Europeans as unpatriotic surrender
monkeys, the real time travel might actually be taking place in the Department
for Transport.

The department's permanent secretary, Philip Rutnam, is understood to have
handed secretary of state Patrick McLoughlin a proposal outlining how to
overhaul rail franchising in the wake of the West Coast Mainline debacle.

As a quick reminder, that saw FirstGroup beat Virgin to the contract, only for
the government to terminate the selection process at a cost of £40m when it
discovered that civil servants hadn't done their sums correctly.

Few know what Mr Rutnam has suggested, but there is a growing sense that he
might be advocating the re-establishment of some form of Office of Passenger
Rail Franchising.

The Transport Select Committee is already pushing for the return of this arm's
length body, with the argument that it would bring greater commercial expertise
and ensure that there is no repeat of West Coast, an experience that nearly saw
the government sued by Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson.

This office was a big feature of the 1990s privatisation of the railways, with
director John O'Brien famously selling 25 franchises in less than two years
ahead of Labour's election victory in 1997.

Then Transport Secretary John Prescott had vowed to get rid of the office in an
attempt to overturn what he saw as the sharper edges of privatisation,
eventually succeeding in getting franchising rolled into the Strategic Rail
Authority.

Eventually franchise decisions ended up back in the department and now wresting
control from civil servants who have never worked in the business world is
exactly the right response to West Coast, according to several industry figures
I've spoken to.

Others, though, might call this passing the buck, ensuring that mandarins can
never again be blamed for making miscalculations which are based on a deeply
flawed model that sees train operators forecast profit and passenger numbers 10
or 15 years into the future.

Even the most gifted of Mayan psychics could not have foretold the events that
could impact those numbers.

Just look at Channel Tunnel Rail Link builder London & Continental Railways,
which nearly went bust in the 1990s partly because its initial revenue forecasts
couldn't possibly have accounted for the emergence and impact of low-cost
airlines.

The right start for franchising reform is not pushing decisions elsewhere, but
accepting that the rail franchising system is based on figures that might as
well have been plucked out of the air, if they haven't been already.

There's no point trying to re-establish a sepia-tinged 1990s if the building
blocks of rail franchising - and, for that matter, Europe - are not restructured
first.

Stop dithering on this nuclear 'strike price' deal

Sticking with government and industry, I hear that the long-awaited "strike
price" for nuclear power generation has basically been agreed. This is the
guaranteed minimum that EDF would get for power produced at a proposed new plant
at Hinkley Point, the first of the coming wave of nuclear new-build.

This floor price is vital, as it means investors are guaranteed a return for
stumping up the billions of pounds needed to design, build and operate the
stations. Once agreed, arguably the biggest remaining obstacle to a new nuclear
dawn has been overcome.

I'm told that EDF and the civil servants have all but signed on the dotted line
for a minimum price of somewhere between £95-£99.50 per megawatt hour, whatever
that means, which was about as high as government was willing to go as then
other forms of clean energy would be cheaper.

However, what the nuclear industry needs is for this deal to be finalised and
formally confirmed. Nuclear's many critics could also do with this news, so that
they could at least keep fighting the inevitable fully informed.

An announcement was due before Christmas, which slipped into this month.
Apparently, "red tape" means official word won't come until March. Red tape
normally sounds like the ponderous work of the civil service, but in this case
is synonymous with several, until now fairly uninterested, parties wanting to
put their stamp on the deal at the last minute.

They know who they are and the message to them is to stop delaying this
programme as even a couple of lost months could lead to people freezing as the
energy gap widens in a few winters' time.

Bargain basement fuels the Footsie recovery

If the real economy really does lag behind the City by about 18 months, then we
should all be back snapping up designer gear with thousands of pounds worth of
low-interest loans by summer 2014. Yesterday, the FTSE soared to its highest
level for nearly five years, as traders seem to have seen an end to a financial
crisis that has lasted almost as long as World War Two. Interesting, though,
that easyJet and Greggs were among the big risers: we're still all going cheap
for the moment.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 25, 2013 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Philip, Boris and Nessie: why Germany wants us to stay

BYLINE: TONY PATERSON in Berlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 203 words


The Loch Ness Monster has not featured prominently in Britain's debate on its
place in Europe, but according to one German newspaper Nessie is one of the main
reasons the UK should stay in the EU.

"Dear Brits, please stay: after all, you're so beautifully crazy," said the
tabloid Bild, arguing that eccentric characters such as Prince Philip, Boris
Johnson and Sacha Baron Cohen have a lot to offer the Continent.

The article struck a rare light note in an otherwise serious criticism of David
Cameron's UK referendum speech.

On a more thoughtful note the paper applauded the Prime Minister, saying he had
bucked a trend that had seen most EU governments agreeing to build Europe
without input from their citizens. "It is as if the European project is too
important for democracy to have a say," it added.

But Der Spiegel labelled Mr Cameron a "scaredy cat", claiming worries about
losing power and influence to Tory right-wingers and Ukip had driven him to make
a provocative speech. Other commentators said it was high time that the rest of
Europe stopped trying to keep Britain in the EU.

The left-of-centre Südeutsche Zeitung wrote it would be wrong to dismiss
outright Mr Cameron's rejection of a bigger Europe, however.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

What a wonderful world the magnificent Jamie Dimon inhabits;
OUTLOOK

BYLINE: BEN CHU in Davos

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 815 words


Some things at Davos never change. The snow is heaped in thick slices on the
gabled roofs. Audis with tinted windows prowl up and down the Promenade.
Delegates are given goody bags filled with useless tat. And Jamie Dimon, the
boss of JP Morgan, stands up, belligerently, for the banks.

Some wondered whether, on that last count at least, things might be different
this year. After all, 2012 was the year the crown slipped from the head of the
man once known as the King of Wall Street. Twelve months ago rumours began to
spread that a JP Morgan trader operating out of the City of London - whom hedge
funds had dubbed "the London Whale" on account of his colossal appetite for the
dodgy end of their derivative trades - had racked up large losses.

Mr Dimon, in his brusque manner, rubbished the rumours, and inferred that anyone
minded to believe them was an idiot. But it turned out that the warnings were
right and Mr Dimon was wrong. Desperately wrong. And he was forced to admit as
much last May. The final bill for unwinding the Whale's disastrous trading book
came in at $6bn (£3.8bn).

So time for some humility from Mr Dimon this year at Davos? Time for a
recognition, perhaps, that he doesn't, in fact, have all the answers, and that
the regulators might have a point when they say that banks like JP Morgan are
too big and too complex for a mere mortal to manage?

No chance. Yes, Mr Dimon repeated his apology to JP Morgan shareholders for the
Whale losses. But before the audience could draw breath he launched into a
vicious assault on regulators and commentators for spreading "misinformation"
about his bank.

He had an answer to everything. Challenged by the hedge fund manager Paul Singer
about the opacity of JP Morgan's published accounts, he shot back: "Hedge funds
are pretty opaque, too." Yes, but hedge funds, unlike global megabanks like JP
Morgan, didn't pose a systemic threat to the global economy in 2008. Neither did
JP Morgan, responded Mr Dimon. His bank was forced to take capital from the US
government for the sake of the system, not because it actually needed it. But
don't investors need to know what's going on under the hood of big banks in more
detail? "You don't know how aircraft engines work either," was Mr Dimon's glib
response.

He had come not to apologise but to give us all an introductory lesson in
economics and finance. "If you're in a barter economy, there are no financial
assets. Once a society starts to save, there are financial assets, and you want
there to be financial assets." Yes, but no one is suggesting abolishing
financial assets, merely arguing that it is unsafe for a single organisation to
cram $2.36 trillion of them on to its balance sheet, as JP Morgan does. "He's
never going to change," sighed one long-time Davos attendee after witnessing Mr
Dimon's performance. You can say that again.

"A pessimist is an optimist with experience," Mr Dimon quipped in response to
one question from the floor. But that's just the point. Mr Dimon seems incapable
of learning from experience. Even a $6bn trading loss only reinforces his
existing world view, a world in which the critics and regulators are always
wrong and Jamie the magnificent is always right. What a wonderful world that
must be.

Will we ever get closure on the European issue?

Sweeping through the Davos congress centre it was hard to find anyone with a
kind word to say for David Cameron's big European referendum speech yesterday.
"Britain needs to be at the European Union table," one UK bank boss told me.
"It's another reason to postpone investment decisions and we need people to
invest," was the verdict of Sir Martin Sorrell. But I did find one dissenter. Or
at least one person who was ambivalent. Adi Godrej, the Indian industrialist,
has UK interests, as the owner of Keyline Brands, which manufactures soaps and
shampoo. "It doesn't matter to my business one way or another, but I do wish
they would just sort out their relationship." Will Mr Cameron's referendum, even
if it happens, deliver that closure? Keep on dreaming.

China - an earthy people, a peaceful people

The Chinese delegation here in Davos is in patronising mood. "The EU is like
China in the 1840s - a technology leader in decline," Dr Xiang Bing, of the
Cheung Kong Graduate School, told us. It's a striking analogy, not least
because, as history records, something dramatic happened to China when it went
into decline: Britain bombarded her ports until the Qing emperor agreed to open
the nation's borders to opium imports. And then came a century of colonial
humiliation for the Middle Kingdom. But Europe should relax because historical
payback could not be further from the Chinese mind. "We're an earthy people, a
peaceful people," Mr Xiang informed the luncheon guests. Judging from the
nervous laughter around the table and the mumbling of "Tibet", I'm not sure that
everyone was convinced.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

A desperate gamble with Britain's interests;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 829 words


The mistake David Cameron made was in promising a speech on Europe at all. With
the eurozone convulsed by crisis and Euroscepticism leaching away political
support at home, such a pledge could only raise expectations. Months of hints,
delays and postponements only upped the ante. By yesterday morning, when the
speech was finally delivered, the Prime Minister was backed into a corner from
which only something truly radical could extricate him.

And radical it was. Should the Conservatives win a majority in 2015 then the
resulting government will hold an in/out referendum on EU membership by the end
of 2017. Thus Mr Cameron fired the starting gun for the next election. He also,
despite all the protestations to the contrary, put Britain's place in Europe in
doubt for the first time. The dangers attendant upon such a move can hardly be
overstated and the attempts to dress it up as firm leadership - confronting an
unavoidable issue so as better to shape the debate - are far from convincing.
Indeed, Mr Cameron has allowed his own political pressures to cloud his
judgement of Britain's best interests.

In fact, the Prime Minister's message was less of a triumph of Euroscepticism
than its reception by - among others - Ukip's Nigel Farage might suggest. Mr
Cameron's analysis of the EU's shortcomings was couched firmly in terms of his
hopes to remedy them. He stressed his desire for Britain to remain at the heart
of the Union. He also spoke out against the hackneyed over-simplifications of
the naysayers: a solo Britain would not flourish as a non-EU Norway or
Switzerland does, he rightly pointed out, and our geopolitical influence would
be materially eroded.

Taken in isolation, Mr Cameron's plan for a new-look Europe also has some
appeal. In the lean and hungry trading bloc of the Prime Minister's imagination,
the only non-negotiable is the single market. Everything else is up for grabs.
"Cumbersome rigidity" is out, replaced by "speed and flexibility", a relentless
focus on global competition and a political constitution that welcomes members'
diversity rather than trying to "snuff it out".

So far, so good. Except that Mr Cameron is attempting to reconcile the
irreconcilable - to steal the thunder of his political rivals, to knit together
a Tory party threatening yet again to tear itself apart over Europe, and to do
so with a vision of a re-shaped EU with which even sceptics might grudgingly
agree. In practice, his proposals collapse under the weight of their own
contradictions.

Pressing ahead with the single market is simply not consistent with a
free-for-all of renegotiations and opt-outs. Moreover, if the EU suffers from
sclerotic complexity now, the unwieldiness of a pick-and-mix agglomeration of
trading areas, travel zones, military agreements, and monetary union can barely
be imagined. The politics is trickier still. The "European partners" with whom
Mr Cameron must negotiate do not share his conception of Europe as primarily a
trading pact. Nor are they inclined to allow Britain to treat Brussels as a
buffet from which it may choose what it fancies and leave the rest. The threat
of a British exit will not help. It is true that much of Europe, including both
Germany and France, are keen for us to remain in the Union. But not at any
price.

The only shred of consolation is that, behind the Prime Minister's deftly
crafted clarity, much wriggle room in fact remains. The biggest "if" is the
outcome of the 2015 election. It is far from certain that the Conservatives will
win the outright majority yesterday's plans require. Mr Cameron has also avoided
nailing his own colours unequivocally to the mast. He talked airily of his
commitment to Britain in Europe. He talked of powers on the environment, social
affairs and crime handed back to member states. But he carefully eschewed
specifics - either as to what he hopes to achieve, or as to how he will vote in
the promised referendum if he fails.

Hopes of a fudge to come are, at best, cold comfort. Five years of uncertainty
on so fundamental an issue would be damaging at any time. With the economy
flatlining, they are potentially catastrophic. That the Prime Minister's latest
move is so at odds with his avowed intention for Britain to be a hub for global
investment only underlines his desperation.

What now? The public mind is, thankfully, far from made up on Europe; opinion
polls record a sharp rise in pro-EU sentiment in recent months. It is up to
Britain's Europhiles to rise to the challenge. That means the business community
making clear what is at stake. It means Nick Clegg shaking off his Coalition
loyalties. It means Ed Miliband sticking to yesterday's claim to be against an
in/out referendum, even as pressure builds in the run-up to 2015.

The irony is that Mr Cameron himself counselled against hasty action yesterday.
If only he had followed his own advice. Instead, as Mr Farage gleefully noted,
the genie is now out of the bottle. Britain is the loser.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

He can retreat to a Thatcherite comfort zone, but he won't be safe;
Cameron's speech

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1008 words


After a long and erratic political journey as leader, David Cameron is at one
again with his party. Following his speech on Europe yesterday, ecstatic Tory
MPs greeted him in the Commons as if he were a returning war hero. On Twitter,
Tory pundits were equally thrilled. They have got their referendum on whether
the UK should remain in the European Union. As a bonus, both Nick Clegg and Ed
Miliband are placed on the defensive as they struggle to respond to that most
simplistic of deadly questions: "Are you opposed to consulting the people?"

Yet, in British politics, ecstasy can turn to misery with terrifying speed.
Cameron's newly outlined course is full of traps for him and in raising the
possibility for the first time since 1975 that the UK could leave the EU, full
of dangers for the country as well. His historic speech makes it less, rather
than more, likely that he will be Prime Minister after the next election.

The unravelling will take many forms and will happen quite quickly. Cameron did
not specify what precisely he would seek to renegotiate. His broad arguments
suggest a renegotiation so fundamental that, if miraculously successful, the UK
would be part of a reformed single market and little else. The lack of detail
made it easier for EU leaders to be diplomatically polite in their public
responses yesterday. Cameron could not afford unambiguously negative responses
from senior EU leaders now, because that would mean another unanswered question
would become even more urgent. What would he recommend in a referendum if he
failed to achieve his objectives?

In some ways, Cameron is playing the same games as Harold Wilson in the
mid-1970s. Wilson entered the February 1974 election pledged to renegotiate the
UK terms of membership and to then hold a referendum. But there are two very big
differences now. For Wilson, the renegotiation was cosmetic. He needed cover to
recommend a "Yes" vote.

For Cameron, a more committed Eurosceptic, leading a party almost wholly united
in its Euroscepticism, the negotiation is dauntingly real and already
incomparably more ambitious. More important, Wilson made his proposals as Leader
of the Opposition. Cameron is making them as Prime Minister at least two years
before the general election. Wilson could not begin negotiating before he had
won an election. Cameron can start now, at least informally and provisionally.
Inevitably, the general election will be partly a progress report on his early
discussions. Voters will be able to form some idea on their likely outcome and
will expect Cameron to be more precise about whether he will recommend a "Yes"
or "No" vote. A refusal to do so would look shifty over an issue that will
partly become one about trust and integrity, as most issues do, unfairly, in
British politics.

The broader political implications are also more ambiguous than jubilant Tory
MPs and pundits seemed to recognise. As those on the right cheered, Tony Blair
and Nick Clegg expressed alarm. Cameron's original political strategy when
elected Tory leader in 2005 has been blown to pieces. Like his predecessors,
William Hague, IDS and Michael Howard, he is ending his half-hearted attempts at
modernisation and realigning himself with the hard core of his party and their
cheerleaders in the newspapers.

At a meeting earlier this week on a separate theme, Paddy Ashdown and two Blair
admirers, Roger Liddle and Pat McFadden were scathing about Cameron as a leader,
seeing him as a short-sighted tactician rather than a strategist of depth. In
the early years of Cameron's leadership as he seemingly moved his party to the
centre ground, his pitch appealed to Blairites and some Liberal Democrats. Now
he is completing the same journey as Hague and IDS did, back to the comfort zone
of his party.

A part of him must feel a little uneasy that, after his early days of tonal
moderation, he will campaign at the next election for an in/out referendum,
condemning "shirkers" and putting the case for spending cuts that make Margaret
Thatcher seem like a social democratic statist.

His slight unease was shown at Prime Minister's Questions when he was questioned
about whether he could "guarantee" that he would campaign for a "Yes" vote. He
said "yes", before adding that it would be on the basis of a successful
negotiation. The questioner, Ed Miliband, was obviously nervous, too. This is a
high-risk game of poker for all leaders. Miliband appeared to rule out support
for an in/out referendum, but his shadow Foreign Secretary, Douglas Alexander,
reiterated later that Labour was opposed to one "now" as it had been when they
voted against one, with Cameron, in the Commons last year. They are leaving the
door open.

Some argue that Miliband missed a trick in not offering a referendum first. That
would have looked so obviously opportunistic it would have unravelled as quickly
as Cameron's vague proposals will do now. His holding position is the best
available, which is to argue that this is not the time to call for such a
referendum when no one knows what form the EU will take in the midst of its
biggest economic crisis, while leaving the door slightly ajar.

Tony Blair deftly argued yesterday that 90 per cent of Cameron's speech on the
need for reform was fine, but the 10 per cent that jeopardises Britain's
membership because of Conservative internal politics was dangerous. When it
comes to framing a potentially precarious argument, Blair remains the supreme
expert.

Cameron and his party will get a boost in the polls. But I suspect most of the
polls will point to another hung parliament. That is why Cameron's speech makes
him less likely to be Prime Minister after the next election. Propping up a
Premier who could lead a campaign to withdraw from the EU would be a
deal-breaker. Because of Cameron's position on Europe, I do not believe the Lib
Dems could form another coalition with the Conservatives. Cameron's political
future was brighter the day before he made the speech than it is now.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

Twitter: @SteveRichards14

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Let the war of independence begin here;
Referendum

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 458 words


The speech delivered by David Cameron yesterday marked a fundamental change in
the debate surrounding our membership of the European Union. This was a speech
Cameron never wanted to give: he is passionate about our continued membership of
the EU, and to risk the Eurosceptic British public putting a spanner in the
works is something he would have avoided if possible.

But the growing tide of support for Ukip's message led the Prime Minister to
make a statement which in the end sounded like it had been taken from the "Yes"
campaign of the 1970s. His support and commitment to the single market came
shining through. It will be used, just as the term "Common Market" was in the
1970s, as an innocuous and cuddly phrase to lure people into supporting what is
a political movement but disguised as a friendly trade organisation.

But all this will come after the next Parliament if, and it's an unlikely if, Mr
Cameron is re-elected. And it will come after attempts at negotiations which
senior European figures have already started, are not welcome and unlikely to
succeed. They may throw some cosmetic changes the Prime Minister's way to aid
his campaign for this country to remain bound in political union. But being able
to fish for herring in the Solent or a few extra hours' flexibility in the
Working Time Directive won't cut it.

David Cameron is right that the British people are upset at continually being
refused a referendum. But Cast Iron Dave is the politician most guilty of that.
His failure not only to grant us a vote on the Lisbon Treaty but the three-line
whip on Tory MPs against a referendum in 2011 will remain in people's minds.

In a mere 15 months, the Prime Minister has done a complete U-turn from the
shambles of that October to now telling the people that he is the man to deliver
their wishes for a change in our relationship with the EU. Why should we believe
him, especially when he has the power to offer an In/Out referendum in this
parliament?

There are claims that the Prime Minister has shot Ukip's fox. From the reaction
we have had, quite the opposite is true. We even have a new councillor who has
defected from the Tories on the back of this speech. The very fact that a
referendum on Britain's membership is being talked about is Ukip's biggest
victory to date. But the battle has only just begun. With Conservatives, Labour
and Lib Dems clear in their determination for Brussels to dominate how we live
our lives, it is Ukip which will be leading the campaign for independence.

We have been fighting for years to get this subject on to the agenda and now we
will be pushing our positive message of a UK free from Brussels' regulation and
able to retake our place on the world stage.

Nigel Farage is the leader of Ukip

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

RABBIT FROM A HAT... OR IS IT JUST A DEAD DUCK?;
The Prime Minister's aggressive European gambit has prompted a furious debate
about the prospect of a 'Brexit'. Here, influential figures tell The Independent
whether he's done the right thing...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 607 words


Guy Verhofstadt, FORMER BELGIAN PM

"David Cameron's promise to hold a referendum regardless of the state of
negotiations over a revised EU treaty is playing with fire. He can control
neither the timing nor the outcome of the negotiations. Cameron will not succeed
if he attempts to hold his European partners to ransom. Britain has suffered
over the years from the chronic failure of politicians to make a positive case
for Europe and counter the untruths in much of the populist press. Cameron made
an attempt at this. But by promising to effectively pull Britain out of the EU
unless he can repatriate powers he contradicts his intentions and creates more,
not less, uncertainty about Britain's future."

Helena Morrissey, FUND MANAGER

"Irrespective of what Britain does, the eurozone is reacting to its own crisis
by choosing ever closer union. Whoever is in government needs to respond to that
so we have to redefine our relationship at some stage. However, I do think it
will be hard to reach a negotiated settlement that gives Britain what she wants.
We last had a referendum on Europe in 1975, so many of us have not had the
chance to have our say. Personally, I think we should."

Sir Martin Sorrell, ADVERTISING MOGUL

"[Our] clients are worried. It's this uncertainty. It's very simple - let's say
you build a factory in the UK. The gestation period is two or three years.
You've got your factory up and running and suddenly the UK pulls out. You've got
tariffs, you've got trade barriers. Suddenly you're outside Europe. That will
either suspend decisions or will move them elsewhere. I think he's [Cameron]
right to finally get to terms with this, to have a proper debate. But to
postpone it for this length of time is dangerous. Like it or not, we are part of
Europe. If I look at Europe, Germany and Poland are more and more important.
That's where the power will lie. I think for us to be outside, that would be a
mistake."

Sir Menzies Campbell, FORMER LIB DEM LEADER

"This was never about the UK; it was always about Ukip. The declarations of
satisfaction which came from the Tory right immediately following Mr Cameron's
speech were disturbing for those of us who are supporters of European
engagement. Mr Cameron's speech had nothing to do with Britain's place in Europe
and everything to do with his leadership of a bickering and divided party. Tory
leaders of the past who have had to fight sections of their party over Europe
have found it an unrewarding experience. Mr Cameron is fated to be among their
number."

Caroline Lucas, FORMER GREEN LEADER

"David Cameron wants to renegotiate Britain's role in Europe and then hold a
referendum. But not for five years. In other words, to bury the issue until
after the next election. It's pure cowardice. I have long argued for a
referendum. Not because I want us to leave, but because it's right that people
have a say on an issue of such importance."

Roland Rudd, CHAIRMAN, BUSINESS FOR NEW EUROPE

"We welcome the renegotiation of issues on a multilateral rather than unilateral
basis. But there is a real danger of four years of uncertainty for business at
this time of very fragile recovery, and the prospect of the foreign direct
investment we so desperately need diverting elsewhere at least until the result
of the referendum is known."

Emma Reynolds, SHADOW EU MINISTER

"The Prime Minister's Europe speech was made at the wrong time for the wrong
reasons. He has put his party interest before the national interest. He has
diminished our influence in reshaping a more competitive and flexible Europe and
he has ignored the friendly advice of President Obama and many European
leaders."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Handbagged!;
* Cameron's promise of EU referendum by 2017 provokes storm of controversy *
Deputy PM warns of 'years of uncertainty because of a protracted, ill-defined
renegotiation' * Eurosceptics, business leaders and top Tory donor join chorus
of disapproval * French Foreign Minister says: 'If Britain wants to leave, we
will roll out the red carpet...' Cameron faces Tory pressure to admit he could
back 'No' vote

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words


David Cameron was accused of taking a dangerous gamble with Britain's economic
future last night, after he bowed to Eurosceptic demands for an in/out
referendum on membership of the European Union.

The Prime Minister insisted he was optimistic of winning a "new settlement" for
Britain in Europe, saying he wanted to recommend staying in a reformed EU. He
promised the British people that they will decide the UK's destiny by the end of
2017 if the Tories win the 2015 general election.

But other EU leaders reacted with hostility to his demands and Labour and the
Liberal Democrats warned that his gamble could backfire. They said his premature
pledge would create five years of uncertainty in which Britain could lose
job-creating foreign investment.

Laurent Fabius, the French Foreign Minister, said: "If the UK decides to leave
the EU, we will roll out the red carpet to businessmen."

Martin Shulz, President of the European Parliament, accused Cameron of playing a
"dangerous game", while the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, said that other EU
countries with "different wishes" to Britain could reject the PM's demands.

The dangers of Mr Cameron's high-risk approach were summed up by Tony Blair, who
told BBC Radio 4: "It reminds me a bit of the Mel Brooks comedy Blazing Saddles
where the sheriff ??? holds a gun to his own head and says, 'If you don't do
what I want I'll blow my brains out'."

Tory Eurosceptics welcomed Mr Cameron's historical pledge to hold the country's
first referendum on Europe since 1975. But hardliners said he was unlikely to
win a good enough deal and are already promising to vote No to continued
membership. They urged the Prime Minister to spell out more clearly that he
would recommend a No vote if he failed to secure a good agreement for Britain.
He dodged that crucial question yesterday, saying: "Who goes into a negotiation
hoping and expecting to fail? That is not the approach I take ??? There is every
chance of success."

Business leaders welcomed the debate on Britain's position in Europe but some
expressed concern. Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of the WPP advertising
group, told The Independent that its clients were worried about the uncertainty
and would suspend investment decisions or move elsewhere. "To postpone it for
this length of time is dangerous. Like it or not, we are part of Europe," he
said. "I think for us to be outside it would be a mistake."

Lord Ashcroft, a major Tory donor, wrote on the ConservativeHome website:
"Tories must remember that we can only get what we want once we win an election.
The more we talk about changing our relationship with Europe, the less likely it
is to happen ??? it is time for Tory Eurosceptics to declare victory and talk
about something else."

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister and Liberal Democrat leader, said: "The
overwhelming priority of the British people is jobs, growth and a strong economy
and my view is that achieving that ambition is made all the more difficult if
you have years and years of uncertainty because of an ill-defined and protracted
renegotiation of Britain's status within the EU."

EU diplomats predicted other countries would make limited concessions but would
not concede the special treatment Mr Cameron seeks.

Ms Merkel said: "We are prepared to talk about British wishes but we must always
bear in mind that other countries have different wishes and we must find a fair
compromise." Guido Westerwelle, her Foreign Minister, added that "cherry picking
is not an option", saying Europe needed more, not less, integration.

Mr Fabius warned: "You can't do Europe à la carte ??? to take an example which
our British friends will understand - imagine Europe is a football club and you
join, once you're in it you can't say, 'Let's play rugby'."

And last night the White House reiterated that Britain should remain in the EU.
President Barack Obama's press secretary, Jay Carney, said: "We believe that the
United Kingdom is stronger as a result of its European Union membership and we
believe the European Union is stronger as a result of having the United Kingdom
in the EU."

Cameron aides believe his pledge to "let the people decide" will be a
vote-winner at the 2015 election. They seized on confusion over Labour's
position after Ed Miliband ruled out an in/out referendum at Prime Minister's
Questions, only for his party to make clear later that such a referendum was not
excluded forever.

Tory Eurosceptics, who gave Mr Cameron a hero's welcome in the Commons chamber,
were jubilant about his call for Britain to be exempt from the EU founding
fathers' commitment to "ever-closer union". But in private, they are pressing
him to go further. "He has got to go into the talks with a stick in his hand,"
one said. "He has got to say he would recommend we pull out if they don't give
us back the powers we want."

There was little sign that Mr Cameron's promise would buy him much time on an
issue that has haunted the Tory party since the Thatcher era. Mark Reckless, a
prominent Eurosceptic, said the Prime Minister's position in the referendum was
now "up for grabs" and predicted he would recommend withdrawal. Sajid Javid, the
Treasury minister, told The Spectator that if no renegotiation were on offer, he
"would personally consider our options outside the EU." Giving his long-awaited
speech in London, Mr Cameron insisted: "We should think very carefully before
giving that position up. If we left the EU, it would be a one-way ticket, not a
return. So we will have time for a proper, reasoned debate."

He added: "I understand the appeal of going it alone, of charting our own
course. But it will be a decision we will have to take with cool heads ??? Of
course Britain could make her own way in the world, outside the EU, if we chose
to do so. So could any other member state. But the question we will have to ask
ourselves is this: is that the very best future for our country?"

Mr Cameron continued: "I never want us to pull up the drawbridge and retreat
from the world. I am not a British isolationist. I don't just want a better deal
for Britain. I want a better deal for Europe too." But leading Europhiles warned
that Britain would be sidelined. The former Liberal Democrat leader, Lord
Ashdown, said: "Mr Cameron has effectively told us that it is his intention to
put Britain on a one-way street to leaving Europe."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

MILIBAND CAUGHT OUT OVER PLANS FOR EU VOTE

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 319 words


Labour's position on staging a referendum on EU membership is in confusion, with
conflicting signals from the party's hierarchy.

Ed Miliband, below, mounted a scathing attack on David Cameron, claiming the
Prime Minister was taking a "huge gamble" designed to keep his fractious party
together.

But the Labour leader was also put under pressure over his attitude, three times
sidestepping challenges from Mr Cameron over where he stood. On the fourth
occasion Mr Miliband seemed to create a clear dividing-line with the Tories as
he told MPs: "My position is no, we do not want an in/out referendum." The
Tories immediately seized on the comment, with party chairman Grant Shapps
saying it was proof "Labour doesn't trust the British public to have their say
on their country's future".

Mr Miliband's aides later briefed that he was not ruling out holding a vote
under any future circumstances, but believed it would create unnecessary
economic uncertainty at the moment. They said he was not excluding the
possibility of including a referendum in the next election manifesto.

Then the shadow Foreign Secretary, Douglas Alexander, sought to clarify the
position, insisting Labour had "never said never" to a referendum, but did not
think it was right to promise one now.

Mr Cameron's announcement fuelled Coalition tensions with the Liberal Democrats.
The Deputy Prime Minister, Nick Clegg, echoed Labour's position as he argued
that the prospect of a referendum was "not in the national interest" because of
the potential impact on the economy. Recovery would be made "all the harder if
we have years of grinding uncertainty because of an ill-defined, protracted
renegotiation of Britain's status within the European Union".

Ukip believes it has obtained a new platform for pressing its demands for
leaving the EU. Its leader, Nigel Farage, said: "No longer can the case for
British withdrawal be confined to the margins."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

He's no Galileo, but he managed to make his heresy seem sensible;
DONALD MACINTYRE'S SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 457 words


You have to get up early in the morning to hear David Cameron make history. It
was still dark when we arrived, aptly, perhaps, since the Prime Minister was
apparently locating himself in a long line of dangerous apostates like Galileo
and Martin Luther. "In its long history, Europe has experience of heretics who
turned out to have a point," he explained.

This was not, mercifully, the "95 theses" Luther nailed to the church door in
Wittenberg. Instead, it was a "vision" with "five principles" but hardly less
heretical. The EU had done its job of ensuring the European peace. Powers would
have to come back from Brussels before Britain voted in an in/out referendum.
And if you judge a speech by its ability to make a gigantic gamble with
Britain's relationship with Europe, not to mention the rest of the world, sound
reasonable, statesmanlike, and logical, then this was a big success.

PMs Major and Thatcher (from whose famous Bruges speech Cameron borrowed quite
heavily, for example in the reference to "British servicemen who had given their
lives for Europe's freedom" and the EU being a "means" and not an "end in
itself") had both been reformists - but hostile to the idea of Britain not being
at the centre of Europe. Cameron seemed to revel in the idea of closer
integration of the eurozone countries, without Britain, of course.

Not that he liked the old idea of a "multi-speed" Europe. All this talk of fast
and slow lanes, missed trains, and the "whole weary caravan of metaphors" should
be "consigned... to a permanent siding", he said. Then he warned that "if we
left the European Union, it would be a one-way ticket, not a return".

Unsurprisingly, he arrived at the Commons four hours later amid excited Tory
cheers and waving of order papers. And a glum looking Nick Clegg. Ed Miliband,
not at his best, repeatedly asked if Cameron could guarantee that he would lead
the campaign to stay in the EU. Yes, said Cameron (meaning I'll have to play
that one by ear if we really get nothing out of the negotiations). Was the
Opposition in favour of a referendum? No said Miliband (meaning I'll have to
play that one by ear until we know how the referendum pledge is playing in the
polls).

Officially of course Cameron was not contemplating failure. "I'm an optimist,"
he insisted to reporters. And sensibly he did not specify exactly what powers he
was seeking to repatriate.

As for his choice of Bloomberg's HQ as the venue, there may be a clue - its
atrium ceiling decoration; a kaleidoscopic installation, intended, according to
a helpful plaque, "to inspire new rules of engagement on behalf of the visitor".
Well, the visitor certainly tore up the old rules. As to just what the new ones
will be, we left as we arrived, in the dark.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

City raises PM's chances in election following his EU referendum speech

BYLINE: GIDEON SPANIER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 192 words


The City is betting that David Cameron has boosted his chances of being
re-elected as prime minister in 2015 after his speech setting out plans for a
referendum on the European Union.

Spread-betting firm IG Index now prices the Tories' chances of winning the next
election at 27 per cent, up from 22 per cent before the speech.

Labour is still seen as the likely winner but leader Ed Miliband's chances have
slipped to 36 per cent from 44 per cent.

James Goundry of IHS Global Insight said: "Politically, in the short-term the
referendum commitment should help appease the many eurosceptics in the
Conservative Party and help maintain unity in the long run-up to the 2015
general election.

"The commitment will also take some of the wind out of the sails of the United
Kingdom Independence Party which campaigns for a British exit from the European
Union.

"The party has polled relatively well in recent months and threatens to take
votes away from Conservative MPs in important constituencies at the next general
election."

IG Index last week warned of "low market volatility and fragile consumer
sentiment" as it reported a 14 per cent slide in trading revenue.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

DAVOS: CHANGE THE WORLD?;
??? or just network with the in-crowd? Ben Chu reports from the slopes

BYLINE: Ben Chu

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1067 words


Oxfam recently produced an analysis showing that that the world's 100 richest
individuals earned enough money in 2012 to end extreme poverty around the world
four times over.

The charity concluded: "It is time our leaders reformed the system so that it
works in the interests of the whole of humanity rather than a global elite."

Global elite? Did someone mention Davos?

As it happens, that select club of globe-trotting corporate titans and
international powerbrokers gathers today for its annual meeting of the World
Economic Forum (WEF).

Some 2,500 company executives, heads of state, central bank chiefs, garlanded
academics and a smattering of celebrities (Charlize Theron is on
stardust-sprinkling duty this year) will gather for five days in a head-spinning
succession of high-powered seminars and opulently catered parties.

So what's it all for? Well, there's no concrete objective. Davos does not
produce a communiqué.

The WEF says its goal is "improving the state of the world". But there's no
commitment on any of the participants to go back home and actually do anything.
So is it all just hot air in a cold climate? Devotees insist not.

They argue that Davos offers a unique opportunity for the top brass of the
business world and the planet's most influential politicians to get together in
an informal setting to discuss the world's challenges.

So who's going to Davos this year? And what topics will the global elite be
discussing?

Bankers and regulators

Davos has long been a bankers' playground, and this year is no different. Scores
of senior representatives from the world's megabanks will be in attendance to
lick their wounds after a cascade of scandals in 2012, from Libor-fixing to
money laundering.

Some grand names stand out. Jamie Dimon of JP Morgan will be sitting on a panel,
his first public appearance since being hit by a $10m (£6.3m) pay cut for
failing to spot that one of his London traders was racking colossal losses.
Lloyd Blankfein, the boss of Wall Street rival Goldman Sachs, will be speaking
on a panel. The subject is an appropriate one for boss of the Vampire Squid:
"competitiveness". John Hourican, the head of RBS's investment bank, is supposed
to be attending, despite rampant rumours that he will be forced to carry the can
for the majority taxpayer-owned bank's Libor manipulation.

The bankers' regulators, too, will be out in force. The incoming Bank of England
Governor, Mark Carney, will be taking part in a session on Saturday. Perhaps he
might spare a word of commiseration for Adair Turner, the chair of the Financial
Services Authority, who was a disappointed contender for Threadneedle Street and
another Davos attendee.

Both men can expect to be buttonholed by their commercial banker colleagues on
the folly of imposing new capital requirements and regulations on the financial
sector at a time when economies need bankers to turn on the lending taps.

The corporate titans

What environment could be more convivial for the head of a multinational
business than multinational Davos?

Martin Sorrell, boss of the world's biggest advertising firm, WPP, will, as
usual be stalking the hotels and conference centre halls. Cheryl Sandberg of
Facebook will also make the trip, as will Muhtar Kent of Coca-Cola.

Executives are likely to swap notes over how best to handle the public anger
over corporation-tax avoidance. Paul Polman of Unilever has called for business
to embrace a more ethical approach. Mr Sorrell has sounded a similar note,
saying that "doing good is good business". The largest corporate "do gooder" in
history, Bill Gates, will be on hand to tell them how it's done.

Times are tough for the masters of business, but there is also a sense among
some participants that things could be getting better. Share prices are picking
up around the world. The US Congress veered away from the fiscal cliff. And the
sizeable Chinese contingent at Davos will find themselves even more popular than
usual now that the oriental giant seems to have dodged a hard economic landing.

The politicians

This time last year the great shadow hanging over Davos was the eurozone crisis.
This year, largely thanks to last summer's intervention by the president of the
European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, the threat of a break-up of the single
currency has receded.

Mr Draghi will proffer his thoughts in a speech on Friday. The speech of the
outgoing technocrat prime minister, Mario Monti, today will be carefully
scrutinised. So will Angela Merkel's tomorrow. Will the German Chancellor strike
a more hard-line note on a bailout for feckless southern Europeans after her
party's surprise defeat in a Lower Saxony poll at the weekend?

David Cameron will also fly in tomorrow after making his great delayed speech on
Britain's future in the European Union. How will the CEOs and continental
politicians react to the Prime Minister's referendum promise? A thumbs down
could really sour his après ski. George Osborne will be speaking on Thursday
with his pre-release copy of the final quarter of 2012 GDP figures tucked in his
breast pocket. Another hot topic will be unorthodox monetary policy.

Mr Carney has floated a nominal GDP target. Everyone will want to hear whether
he drops any more hints.

The academics

Davos loves Nobel prize laureates. No fewer than 14 of them are attending this
year, including big-name economists Joe Stiglitz and Christopher Pissarides. The
big debating point looks likely to be the impact of austerity in the wake of the
International Monetary Fund's (IMF) bombshell research last year suggesting it
had underestimated the damaging effect of budget cuts. Christine Lagarde,
managing director of the IMF, might push the case privately for a relaxation of
scheduled cuts behind the scenes.

Less diplomatic, and more public, will be Larry Summers, the former US Treasury
Secretary, who has long argued that governments - including our own - made a
dreadful mistake by pivoting to austerity in 2010.

The great hedge-fund manager, George Soros, will also be liberally dispensing
his poacher-turned-gamekeeper wisdom. And for those businessmen and women with a
cultural hinterland, there will be talks from novelists Paulo Coelho and Henning
Mankell.

So will minds be expanded? Might they even be changed? That's the Davos promise.
The great pity is that there's no real way of testing whether it's true or not.
Still, the canapés will be good. They always are.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

In or out? PM pledges EU exit vote by 2017;
Landmark speech to set out choice between 'new settlement' and leaving Cameron:
there will be no EU vote before the next election

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words


David Cameron will today offer the public a simple "in-or-out" referendum by
2017 on whether Britain should remain in the European Union.

In his much-delayed speech on Europe, the Prime Minister will promise that if
the Conservatives win the 2015 election the public will have a straight choice
between accepting the "new settlement" he will seek for the UK in the EU or
leaving the 27-nation bloc. His dramatic move will be welcomed by most Tory
Eurosceptics.

But pro-Europeans will worry that he is opening the EU exit door - and that
Britain could lose job-creating foreign investment before the historic vote is
held. Mr Cameron will deliver what is widely seen as the most important speech
of his premiership in London this morning, after postponing his plans to make it
in Amsterdam last Friday because of the Algerian hostage crisis.

Close allies insist Mr Cameron believes passionately that Britain should stay in
the EU and is confident of winning a better deal, which he can "sell" to the
British people.

They say the referendum would happen even if other EU leaders decide not to
negotiate a new treaty to entrench reforms to the eurozone.

Mr Cameron would still table demands to "repatriate" some EU powers to the UK -
probably on employment, social issues, crime and policing. He is gambling that
the threat of Britain withdrawing will extract concessions from other EU
leaders.

The Prime Minister will rule out a referendum before the 2015 election, saying
that would be a "false choice" because the shape of the new Europe is not yet
clear. But he will announce that legislation will be drafted before the election
and, if the Tories win, would be introduced immediately so a referendum would
take place in the first half of the five-year parliament.

He will declare: "It is time for the British people to have their say. It is
time to settle this European question in British politics."

Arguing that politicians can no longer duck the question, he will say that
public disillusionment with the EU is at "an all-time high" in Britain and
democratic consent for the union is "wafer thin". In a jibe at Labour, he will
say: "Those who refuse to contemplate consulting the British people would, in my
view, make more likely our eventual exit.

"Simply asking the British people to carry on accepting a European settlement
over which they have had little choice is a path to ensuring that when the
question is finally put - and at some stage it will have to be - it is much more
likely that the British people will reject the EU. That is why I am in favour of
a referendum. I believe in confronting this issue - shaping it, leading the
debate, not simply hoping a difficult situation will go away."

In an attempt to reassure pro-European businessmen worried about possible exit,
he will say: "I believe something very deeply. That Britain's national interest
is best served in a flexible, adaptable and open EU. And that such an EU is best
with Britain in it.

"Over the coming weeks, months and years, I will not rest until this debate is
won. With courage and conviction I believe we can deliver a more flexible,
adaptable and open EU in which the interests and ambitions of all its members
can be met."

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, said last night: "The speech will define David
Cameron as a weak Prime Minister, being driven by his party, not by the national
economic interest."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 21, 2013 Monday
                                 Second Edition

Cameron to deliver jinxed Europe speech

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 222 words


David Cameron will this week finally deliver his long-delayed speech promising a
referendum on Britain's relationship with the European Union.

After months of preparation, he had been due to travel to the Netherlands on
Friday to spell out his plans. But the Prime Minister was forced to postpone it
the night before as the gravity of the Algerian hostage crisis became apparent.
William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said yesterday Mr Cameron would make the
speech this week.

An announcement on the timing is due today. It is most likely to take place on
Wednesday, ahead of Mr Cameron's appearance at the World Economic Forum in
Davos.

The Prime Minister will warn Britain could "drift towards the exit" unless there
is real change in Brussels. He will say the next Tory manifesto will pledge to
negotiate a new deal for Britain in the EU and to put it to voters in about five
years' time. Mr Hague said there was a strong case for seeking "fresh consent"
from voters for Britain's role within the bloc.

The Eurosceptic former minister Liam Fox stressed there should eventually be a
referendum on whether Britain should quit the EU altogether.

Meanwhlie the US ambassador to London, Louis Susman, has reiterated his
Government's opposition to British withdrawal. He said: "We cannot imagine a
strong EU without a vibrant partner in the UK."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 19, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Should rich old people use their bus passes? How do we get more women in the
boardroom?;
The big questions

BYLINE: Answered this week by MARGARET JAY

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1065 words


Is the US out of order expressing a view on the UK's membership of the EU?

I was glad the US diplomat Philip Gordon spoke as he did. He brought an adult
economic and strategic perspective to what often seems a petulant, childish
debate here. The Obama administration obviously thinks we're reducing our
influence in Washington by publicly contemplating leaving the EU, let alone
actually doing so. The irony is that those on the Tory right who most loudly
support the "special relationship" complain as loudly when our closest ally
offers a realistic view of our policy.

Should the British people be offered an "in or out" question on in any EU
referendum?

That would certainly be a dangerous gamble. I chair the House of Lords
Constitution Committee and we've produced a detailed report on referendums in
this country. We concluded that they are often used as a tactical device by
governments in difficulty, rather than as a serious extension of democracy. We
recommended that Parliament should decide when a referendum should be held. If
after the next election we need a referendum to ratify a new treaty relationship
with the EU, it would need a more complex question than "in or out". Personally
I can't imagine ever voting to reduce our overall links to Europe.

What should Barack Obama prioritise in his second term?

It's tempting to say: gun control, gun control and gun control. My hope is that
he uses the power of his office to embed some of the domestic policies he was
struggling with in his first term. I'm particularly concerned to see his health
reforms properly implemented. It's appalling that a third of US citizens still
have no adequate insurance against illness. Barack Obama doesn't need to face
another election. He can be tough and courageous. He should follow Lyndon
Johnson, who asked advisers cautioning him against introducing civil rights:
"What the hell is the presidency for?"

Could a law on assisted dying risk putting too much power into the hands of
relatives of the terminally ill?

I want to see a change in the law to give everyone - patients, relatives,
doctors - greater protection and greater choice. At the moment, the Director of
Public Prosecution's guidelines make it unlikely that a relative who
compassionately helps someone to die will be prosecuted, but that is a
guideline, not a law. The guideline explicitly excludes healthcare professionals
from assisting. I agree with the Commission on Assisted Dying which last year
said that the current legal status of assisted dying is inadequate and
incoherent. We need to have a clear legal position which enables terminally ill
people to choose an assisted death which is medically supervised and safe. I'm
horrified that today very ill British people have to travel to die in a Swiss
clinic because of the legal muddle in this country. I hope that the Bill shortly
to be introduced in the House of Lords will be successful.

Is the new proposed flat-rate pension an unavoidable move given our ageing
population?

It looks as though a flat-rate pension will give women pensioners, always the
poorest, a better deal, so I certainly welcome that. I'm one of the generation
who thought the married women's opt-out scheme was helpful, but in fact it
created serious problems for many people when they reached pensionable age.
Pensions are so complicated that it's always difficult to judge whether what
looks like an improvement in the short term will work over the next decades as
the ageing population grows. My hope is that women who have raised families,
been carers and been in and out of work may achieve some long-term security
through the flat-rate pension.

Are older people better served by being given the chance to keep working? Or do
they deserve long, happy, state-funded retirements?

The real question here is: is 60 the new 40? Of course, many older people are
healthier and more energetic than even our parents' generation, but many are
not. In my opinion it's about chance as well as choice. I'm now in my seventies
and enjoy going on working. I work less than I did 10 years ago, still enough to
interest me, and, I hope, make a contribution. But I'm extremely lucky and
privileged, both in my health and in my political and charity work. It's very
different if people feel economic and social pressures to continue a physically
or mentally exhausting job. Although there is a strong case for raising the
state pension age gradually over time, the state should continue to provide
enough to make old age secure and dignified, even if we do all live to 100!

Have rich older people a moral duty not to collect their winter fuel payments or
bus passes?

I'm old-fashioned enough to believe in the principle that tax-funded benefits
should be universal. I recognise that this may be financially unrealistic in
2013, but I still shy away from cumbersome, expensive means-testing schemes
which undermine this principle. We have yet to see, for example, how the new
complex allowances for children will work in practice. I also resent the notion
that those of us who have worked for 40 or 50 years have some kind of moral duty
to refuse allowances. We may decide that individually we don't need to claim
them but we've certainly paid for them over our lifetime. I really worry that if
this kind of approach gains traction, some policy guru will suggest that
financially secure pensioners don't need to use the NHS.

Are you in favour of quotas for women in the boardroom?

I am absolutely convinced that having more women company directors not only
improves equality but also improves company performance. But I don't think that
quotas are the way to go. Over the past 10 years, I have several times been the
only woman at a boardroom table and it is lonely. But the situation seems to be
changing quite fast. In the past two years, Lord Mervyn Davies has led a
practical initiative which has meant that 27 per cent of new director
appointments to FTSE 100 boards have been women. The aspirational target for
these companies is now to have a quarter of all board members by 2015. Still not
enough. The change needs to go further down to smaller and more traditional
companies, but my experience is that a targeted approach, led in a high-profile
way, by top business people will be more successful than trying to impose a
legalistic rigid regime.

Baroness Jay of Paddington is a former Leader of the House of Lords

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 19, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Politics and City are an end in themselves, which means nothing gets done;
ANTHONY HILTON'S WEEK

BYLINE: ANTHONY HILTON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 865 words


It is an odd fact of UK life that we are home to the biggest and most
sophisticated international financial centre in the world, but it seems unable
to meet the demand from the British public for home loans at prices they can
afford, and it is equally bad at providing loans for small businesses. It is
notoriously reluctant to finance the start-ups and early-stage ventures on which
our future prosperity depends, and on the other side of the balance sheet it is
totally unable to deliver a reasonable return to savers, either on an individual
level or via pension schemes.

However adept it may be at trading international securities and selling its
services round the world, when it comes to meeting the needs of the UK
non-financial economy, the system does not deliver. meanwhile, society suffers
because so much of the City forgot that finance exists to meet the needs of the
real economy, not to be an end in itself.

One could say something similar of politics, for that activity also appears
increasingly to have forgotten what it is there for. The purpose of politics
should be to find ways to reconcile irreconcilable differences between people
and power groups. Increasingly though, as Parliament and its environs have come
to be dominated by career politicians with limited-to-no experience of the
working world outside Westminster, politics has come to be seen as an end in
itself.

Hence the alacrity with which politicians have become obsessed with the EU and
the potentially disastrous distraction of a referendum. It is so much easier to
rant about Brussels, than it is to knuckle down and find workable solutions to
real problems elsewhere. Outside Westminster it is hard to find anyone who
believes renegotiating the relationship with the EU is the number one problem.
But it is likely to be all we are going to hear about in Westminster for the
next few years.

All of which brings us to infrastructure, the blanket term for the mix of
transport, communications, energy, utilities and education which form the
backbone of the economy and on which our competitiveness and quality of life
depends. It needs investment for expansion and renewal - some £300bn over the
next 15 years, to quote a much-touted figure.

Unfortunately, little to nothing seems to be happening. Spending has fallen
under this government; the construction industry has laid off tens of thousands
of people through lack of work; and in so doing has added to the stagnation in
the wider economy.

At a private dinner in the rector's house of Imperial College on Tuesday,
industry leaders lamented the inability of politics and finance to take a
long-term view of the country's needs. It is the misfortune of those who work in
infrastructure that decisions about its future require bold thinking from
politicians and financiers, the two most dysfunctional sections of British
public life. The result is inertia.

Too many pension schemes spoil the pots

You can see where the Office of Fair Trading is coming from in launching an
investigation this week into the charges levied on workplace pension schemes.
There has been a raft of work by fund manager David Pitt-Watson and others which
suggests that pension pots would be a third higher if charges in this country
were at the same level as, for example, in Holland.

Whether the higher charges are down to a lack of competition is, however,
another matter. One of the problems with UK pensions is it is so fragmented.
Whereas many other countries have industrywide pension schemes here the basic
unit of organisation is the workplace. This means an employee moving from Tesco
to Sainsbury's has to leave one pension scheme and join another which is a
costly administrative burden.

It also gives rise to a telling industry statistic that out of 40,000 defined
contribution pension schemes in this country, over 30,000 have fewer than 10
members and are therefore too small either to be cheap to run or efficient in
their investments.

We need a few very large pension schemes, not thousands of small ones, because
it would save billions and deliver the scale required for better investment
strategies. But just as turkeys don't vote for Christmas, those running small
pension schemes resist.

Bosses are sitting on their cash - or are they?

Ian McCafferty, the latest recruit to the Monetary Policy Committee, noted in
his maiden speech yesterday that whole sectors of the economy were not behaving
as past experience suggested they would.

Thus large companies are awash with cash and interest rates are as low as they
could be, so they ought to be investing for the future. But in fact that they
are not, or do not appear to be.

So here are three reasons why things might be different. First, company bosses
get their bonuses on short-term performance so are reluctant to take long-term
investment risks. Second, as long as the stock market is pessimistic executives
do not want to make optimistic moves in case their City critics think they have
lost the plot. Third, a lot of investment these days does not involve buying big
items of kit. It is computer-based, where the costs do not show up in
conventional statistics. In other words, no one has a clue what is going on.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 19, 2013 Saturday
                                 Third Edition

Obama piles pressure on Cameron over EU exit;
Downing Street plays down US President's personal intervention ahead of Europe
speech

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 862 words


David Cameron's trouble-prone strategy on Europe suffered another setback when
US President Barack Obama made a personal appeal to him not to allow Britain to
drift out of the European Union.

Mr Obama's intervention came only hours before the Prime Minister was due to
make his landmark speech on the UK's relationship with Europe.

Mr Cameron had planned to warn that the British public could "drift towards the
exit" of the EU unless it reformed.

But Mr Cameron called off his speech in Amsterdam so that he could remain in
London to deal with the unfolding hostage crisis at a BP gas complex in Algeria.

Downing Street did not reveal Mr Obama's plea but the White House disclosed:
"The President underscored our close alliance with the United Kingdom and said
that the United States values a strong UK in a strong European Union, which
makes critical contributions to peace, prosperity, and security in Europe and
around the world." No 10 had said earlier that the two leaders discussed the
Algeria situation.

Yesterday Downing Street confirmed that Mr Cameron and Mr Obama spoke about the
postponed Europe speech and agreed that a debate was needed because of concerns
in Britain, "but the hope is that Britain will stay in".

Mr Cameron's official spokesman played down any differences with the American
President, saying the telephone call was "very friendly, very constructive." Mr
Cameron's spokesman added: "The US were stating their position. That is one we
entirely agree with."

The Prime Minister's aides insisted there was no conflict because Mr Cameron -
in the long-delayed speech that he may now deliver next week - will make clear
that he does not want Britain to leave the EU.

He will say: "I want the European Union to be a success and I want a
relationship between Britain and the EU that keeps us in it."

Martin Callanan, chairman of the European Conservatives and Reformists group in
the European Parliament, said it was very important for the Tories to offer a
"solid commitment" to a referendum, which would help to see off the threat from
the UK Independence Party (Ukip), which supports Britain's withdrawal from the
EU. He told the BBC's Daily Politics programme: "Clearly they [Ukip] are going
to take votes away from us, anybody who doesn't vote Conservative is a threat
for us and I think Ukip is a genuine problem.

"It gives us a chance to say to the many disenchanted Conservative voters, 'here
is the referendum that you want', and it's only a Conservative government that's
going to deliver it. Ukip aren't going to be in power after the next election."
Latest opinion polls show that Mr Cameron is on safe ground in arguing that the
"status quo" in Europe is not acceptable. The public agrees.

But the polls also suggest that Nick Clegg's belief that Mr Cameron is "playing
with fire" by offering a referendum might also be right. According to YouGov,
only 50 per cent of the public would vote to stay in the EU if Mr Cameron
renegotiated the UK's relationship with it, told them Britain's interests were
protected and recommended continued membership on new terms. Some 25 per cent
said they would still vote to quit the EU, while the others were either unsure
(20 per cent) or would not vote (5 per cent).

Joe Twyman, YouGov's director of political and social research, said: "When
given a straight 'in/out' choice, currently public opinion is strongly towards
withdrawal, and when given the option of staying in the EU on renegotiated terms
there is still only 50 per cent support.

"Therefore, David Cameron will have to hope he is able to persuade enough voters
that whatever negotiation he does achieve is accepted by the British people,
because if he doesn't then we could well be headed for the Brexit he hopes to
avoid."

TIMELINE

CAMERON ON EUROPE

1

"Instead of talking about the things that most people care about, we talked
about what we cared about most. While parents worried about childcare, getting
the kids to school, balancing work and family life - we were banging on about
Europe."

OCTOBER 2006

Conservative Party conference

2

"It is a classic example of: here is this big agenda where Europe really can
deliver something that its citizens want - which is action on climate change. It
doesn't need institutional change, so let's roll up our sleeves and get on with
it."

DECEMBER 2006

3

"My approach to European negotiations will be different. I believe that the best
way to pursue your national interest is not to posture, but to persuade. I will
be polite, but solid and consistent."

MARCH 2007

4

"I went to Brussels with one objective: to protect Britain's national interest.
And that is what I did."

DECEMBER 2011

after he vetoed an EU-wide fiscal pact

5

"I understand why some people want an 'in/out' referendum??? Some people just
want to get out. I do not share that view. I do not think that is the right
thing to do."

29 JUNE 2012

6

"For me the two words 'Europe' and 'referendum' can go together, particularly if
we really are proposing a change in how our country is governed, but let us get
the people a real choice first."

1 JULY 2012

7

"A fresh settlement and then fresh consent for that settlement - I think that's
the right approach."

JANUARY 2013

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 18, 2013 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Cameron forced to delay key EU speech warning of Britain's exit

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 624 words


David Cameron is to warn that the British people will "drift towards the exit"
of the European Union unless the EU is reformed.

The warning will be included in the speech on the UK's relationship with the EU,
which the Prime Minister was due to make in the Netherlands today but postponed
last night because of the hostage crisis in Algeria.

In what is seen as the most important speech of his premiership, Mr Cameron will
promise a referendum on the UK's relationship with the EU - but not until after
the 2015 general election. That will fire the starting gun for an intense debate
on whether Britain's future lies in the 27-nation bloc. Labour, the Liberal
Democrats and some leading businessmen fear that promising a referendum risks
putting the country on a slippery slope leading to EU withdrawal - and years of
uncertainty for business.

Extracts released last night - before today's event was called off - show that
Mr Cameron will try to turn that criticism on its head. He will argue that an
increasingly disenchanted British public could walk away from the EU unless its
problems are tackled. "There is a gap between the EU and its citizens which has
grown dramatically in recent years and which represents a lack of democratic
accountability and consent that is - yes - felt particularly acutely in
Britain," he will tell an audience of businessmen and diplomats.

"If we don't address these challenges, the danger is that Europe will fail and
the British people will drift towards the exit." Mr Cameron will insist: "I do
not want that to happen. I want the European Union to be a success and I want a
relationship between Britain and the EU that keeps us in it." His tone will be
more positive than Conservative Eurosceptics had hoped - a recognition that he
will need to strike deals with other EU leaders rather than threaten to walk out
of negotiations on a new EU treaty.

He will insist that he has "a positive vision for the future of the EU" in which
Britain wants to play a "committed and active part". Mr Cameron will list the
three challenges facing the EU as the eurozone crisis, being competitive in the
global economy and public support. He will argue that difficult issues must be
tackled head on, not shied away from. He will say: "There are always voices
saying 'don't ask the difficult questions'. But it's essential for Europe - and
for Britain - that we do."

He will add: "There is a growing frustration that the EU is seen as something
that is done to people rather than acting on their behalf. And this is being
intensified by the very solutions required to resolve the economic problems.
People are increasingly frustrated that decisions taken further and further away
from them mean their living standards are slashed through enforced austerity or
their taxes are used to bail out governments on the other side of the
Continent."

President Barack Obama has reiterated his support for Britain's membership of
the EU in a phone call with Mr Cameron, the White House revealed.

During the conversation yesterday, in which, the White House said "the Prime
Minister set forth his thinking on UK-EU relations in light of his upcoming
speech," Mr Obama "underscored our close alliance with the United Kingdom and
said that the United States values a strong UK in a strong European Union."

Mr Cameron will tell other European leaders they have a duty to hear concerns
and act on them. Warning of the risks of ducking the difficult questions, he
will say: "More of the same will not secure a long-term future for the eurozone.
More of the same will not see the EU keeping pace with the new powerhouse
economies. More of the same will not bring the EU any closer to its citizens.
More of the same will just produce more of the same."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 18, 2013 Friday
                                 Second Edition

The PM's long European nightmare still isn't over;
COMMENT

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 249 words


Rarely has the build-up to an important speech been such a disaster. Even before
David Cameron decided last night to postpone his address on Europe because of
events beyond his control in Algeria, describing it as "long-awaited" did not do
justice to it.

The seeds were sown last June, when the Prime Minister appeared to rule out an
"in/out" EU referendum at a Brussels press conference. His surprisingly positive
defence of our EU membership provoked hostile headlines in our
Eurosceptic-dominated newspapers, and fury among Tory MPs. The next day, Mr
Cameron and his aides scrambled together a last-minute article to reassure his
party. He wrote: "For me, the two words 'Europe' and 'referendum' can go
together."

There was no going back; he could not deny his party the referendum it craved.
All he could do was delay it. Since that episode, "The Speech" has been in and
out of Mr Cameron's diary more times than any other event. He intended to
deliver it in the autumn; then before Christmas.

Then it was fixed for next Tuesday, a diplomatic disaster as it clashed with the
50th anniversary of the Franco-German reconciliation treaty after the Second
World War. That the British Government didn't know there was a big love-in in
Berlin shows how we have drifted to the EU's margins, if not quite the exit
door.

The delay left a vacuum, filled by Eurosceptics. Eventually, even pro-Europeans
woke up. As a result, when it finally happens, Mr Cameron's speech will probably
satisfy none of them.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday
                                 First Edition

A desperate PM is risking chaos because his party is out of control;
Europe speech

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1005 words


The most striking feature of David Cameron's much-heralded speech on Europe
tomorrow is that he is making it at all. The dramatic, over-hyped act is out of
character. Since the election Cameron has not sought to generate much excitement
before highly charged policies take shape. In advance of sweeping domestic
reforms he tends to keep his head down and let his ministers act. Yet tomorrow
the Prime Minister will seek to make history by outlining his plans in a policy
area in which even the immediate future is not known.

The contrast is breathtaking. If anything, Cameron has not shown enough interest
in communicating what he and his ministers are trying to do in domestic policy.
Although Tony Blair is one of his heroes and Cameron has to some extent imitated
Blair's style as a public figure, he has shown little interest in putting a case
in public, an obsession of Blair's. Under Cameron, there are no monthly prime
ministerial press conferences. There were no big speeches in advance of the
original NHS reforms or before Michael Gove embarked on his education
revolution. The welfare revolution is left largely to Iain Duncan Smith to
explain. This is the precise opposite of Blair, who led a series of "welfare
reform roadshows" around the country before he and Gordon Brown agreed what the
new policies would be.

Some of Cameron's crusaders behind the scenes have bemoaned the fact that he
does not pay more attention to communicating, blaming lack of preparation in
this area on some of the problems that have afflicted their many reforms.

On one level, though, Cameron's laidback, emollient leadership has been a clever
cover for the ideologically driven ministers working furiously on many fronts.
In addition, the dynamics of the Coalition make public communication awkward. If
Cameron were on TV all the time, explaining in accessible and populist ways that
his Government was resolutely updating Thatcherism, the Liberal Democrats would
become more awkward than they already are. Perhaps the failure of the Big
Society, in my view an astute way of projecting updated Thatcherism, has led
Cameron to decide to get on with policy-making and worry less about conveying
what he and his restless ministers are trying to do.

Until now. After months of agonising, the laid-back, sometimes barely visible
leader prepares to deliver a "historic" speech on Britain's future relations
with Europe when what may happen in the next few years is wildly unpredictable
and largely out of his control. Tomorrow, he will outline his objectives
extending into the next parliament fully aware that negotiations within the EU
are fraught and can change right up until the last minute of a deadline. On a
cold January day in 2013, Cameron will make his bid for a sequence that ends, if
it ends or begins at all, well after the next election. He does so in a wider
context of grave economic crisis. Britain's membership of the EU was not its
cause and an exit would not be part of the solution. But it is Europe that will
dominate British politics - as it has done with varying degrees of intensity
since the 1970s.

A partial explanation for Cameron's leap in the direction of hazardously
historic speeches is that he sees, perhaps, an electoral opportunity in relation
to Europe. There are always sensible reasons for silly behaviour and leaders are
conditioned to detect opportunities in what seems like an impossible situation.
Here, Cameron hopes by the time of the election to claim that his negotiations
are on course, or will be, and that a referendum will give voters the chance to
decide, in marked contrast to how Labour would, in his words at Prime Minister's
Question's yesterday, "give more powers to Brussels".

The next election campaign will not be as neat as that. In the unlikely event
that Cameron seems to be making credible headway in Europe, almost unifying his
party and getting a sustained bounce in the polls, Labour would not go into the
election committing suicide by refusing to offer a referendum. But even if
Cameron's approach does place him in tune with voters, the newspapers they read
and, to some extent, his own convictions, that does not explain the timing or
the fact of tomorrow's speech. Almost certainly, the next election is more than
two years away and he had plenty of space to play any electoral cards nearer the
time without risking them being torn to shreds in the coming months. The
sensible reasons only take us so far.

In the end, no explanation for the speech makes sense apart from one. Cameron
leads a party unwilling to be led. In such a context, leaders start to act
desperately and in ways that defy reason. They are doomed to be silly. In the
early 1970s, Harold Wilson changed his mind four times about Britain's
membership of the EU, largely to keep his party together. In the mid 1990s, John
Major started an absurd "beef war" in an attempt to keep his party together.
Cameron is behaving oddly because he is not in control. In an attempt to seize
control, he will become even more at the mercy of events and his party's willful
insurrectionaries.

A contrived event, one that is out of character, will lead to further chaos, as
we have witnessed already over the mini-crisis in No 10 as to when precisely the
speech would be delivered. Even the decision to stage it in Holland reeks of
comically hand-wringing calculation that has not gone to plan. Thatcher spoke in
Bruges. Major delivered his historic speech in Bonn, where he spoke of his
desire to be at the "heart of Europe". Blair put his case in any city apart from
those in the UK. Cameron must speak in Holland even though there is not a lot to
say.

When all the fuss subsides in a few years' time, the UK will still be a member
of the EU, as all the main party leaders want. In the meantime, Cameron will
behave oddly, uncharacteristically and dangerously before we return to where we
are now, and where it is in our interests to be: a pragmatic member of the
European Union.

Twitter: @steverichards14

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Cable: EU referendum a dangerous gamble;
Business Secretary warns Cameron that uncertainty is the enemy of investment

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 426 words


A referendum on Europe after 2015 is a "dangerous gamble," the Liberal Democrat
Business Secretary Vince Cable, pictured, will warn tonight.

On the eve of tomorrow's landmark speech by David Cameron which Conservative MPs
are describing as the most important of his career, Mr Cable will launch a
pre-emptive strike against the Prime Minister's European strategy. He will argue
that, to secure a new deal for Britain, Mr Cameron will have to threaten that
the UK would "walk out" of the EU if he failed to achieve his objectives.

Conservative pressure on Mr Cameron increased last night when Liam Fox, the
former Defence Secretary, said the referendum he plans must offer "a clear
in/out choice." Although Mr Fox would prefer to secure a more open and flexible
relationship with the EU, he said Britain could leave it "without fear".

In a long-planned speech to businessmen in Oxfordshire, Mr Cable will urge
"reform" from within the EU rather than "renegotiation". Reflecting his private
talks with foreign companies considering investing in the UK, he will say they
are potentially being driven away by doubts about Britain's EU membership.

"Uncertainty is the enemy of investment," he will say. "At a time of extreme
fragility in business confidence, such uncertainty would add to the sense of
unresolved crisis [in the eurozone] and weaken Britain's ability to deliver more
reform inside the EU... This is a terrible time to have the diversion and
uncertainty which the build up to a referendum would entail."

The Business Secretary will warn that Britain's efforts to preserve the EU
single market could prove "next to impossible" if it tries to disengage from
some commitments and threatens to block EU integration in other areas to secure
concessions. "That seems to me a dangerous gamble to make".

Mr Cable's fears about job-creating investment were echoed yesterday by Ed
Miliband, who told the Commons that the referendum plan would result in "a
'closed for business' sign hanging around Britain" for five years.

Accusing Mr Cameron of "losing control" of his party, the Labour leader said:
"When it comes to Europe, it's the same old Tories -a divided party and a weak
Prime Minister".

Mr Cameron accused Labour of having nothing to say on the substance of the
issue. Previewing his speech, he said: "Millions of people in this country,
myself included, want Britain to stay in the EU but they believe there are
chances to negotiate a better relationship." He said that he would seek the
"full-hearted consent of the British people" for a fresh settlement.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Europe can wait. The PM's got the diners of Thanet to worry about;
SKETCH

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 409 words


''The residents of Thanet," Laura Sandys, one of its two Tory MPs, announced in
the Commons yesterday, "enjoy burgers but also love horses". Though effective,
this isn't quite a foolproof argument with which to tackle the consumer scandal
of the week since the shocked "diners of Thanet", as Ms Sandys described them,
also probably like little gambolling lambs - which doesn't stop them eating
them.

Nevertheless the Prime Minister, no mean horse-lover himself, was quick to
respond to the "extremely important and serious issue" she had raised, adding
that the Food Standards Agency had "made it clear that there is no risk to
public safety, because there is no food-safety risk, but this is a completely
unacceptable state of affairs".

In some parts of the world, of course, it would be anything but "completely
unacceptable" to devour horse meat on an industrial scale. It's to Mr Cameron's
credit he didn't pander to his more Europhobic MPs, already excited at the
prospect of subjecting his Big Speech tomorrow to minute scrutiny, by pointing
to figures indicating that five EU countries, including France and Italy, are
among the top 17 producers of horse meat. Especially as one of the food
companies involved has already launched a "full-scale investigation into two
Continental European third-party suppliers who are the suspected source of the
product in question". It surely can't be long before "they eat horses don't
they" will be adopted by Ukip as its new campaign slogan.

Which didn't mean that two days before the Speech Mr Cameron could escape the
subject - one that, Ed Miliband gleefully reminded him, he had once said was the
Conservative Party's biggest problem and that it spent far too much of its time
"banging on" about. It wasn't that Ed Miliband was particularly brilliant,
though he is getting much better at the short question, as in: "Will Britain be
in the European Union in five years' time?" That this is too toxic to answer
"yes" to in the modern Tory party - despite the Prime Minister's personal view,
restated yesterday, that "Britain is better off in the European Union" -
illustrates Mr Cameron's problem isn't his style, which was combative as ever
yesterday. It's the cliffhanger soap opera he now finds himself in. Will it be
an in/out referendum as Mr Cameron's logic surely dictates it will be? Will
cabinet ministers be able to campaign on either side of the argument? Tune in
for tomorrow's enthralling episode.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Clegg warns an EU referendum will have a 'chilling effect' on economy

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political eDitor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 710 words


The battle lines over which powers should be returned from Brussels to Britain
will be drawn today when Conservative Eurosceptics list their demands for the
"new settlement" with the EU promised by David Cameron.

But Nick Clegg and a new all-party pro-European campaign, which includes Kenneth
Clarke, poured cold water on the prospect of Britain winning a major
repatriation of powers, accusing the Eurosceptics of making unrealistic demands.

Mr Cameron is expected to welcome the Fresh Start group's "manifesto for change"
ahead of his landmark speech on Europe on Friday, when he will offer a
referendum after the 2015 general election on the deal he aims to win in
negotiations on a new EU treaty.

The Prime Minister will brief Tory Cabinet members on his speech today. Some of
them want to leave the EU - and are urging him to threaten to quit in order to
put pressure on other member states to offer concessions.

But Mr Cameron's differences with his Liberal Democrat deputy were laid bare
when Mr Clegg warned that speculation about a referendum could have a "chilling
effect" on jobs and foreign investment in Britain. "Uncertainty is the enemy of
growth and jobs," he told BBC Radio 4. Investors could be frightened away by an
"arcane debate that will go on for years and years and years".

Mr Clegg added: "I don't agree with the premise that we can unilaterally simply
rewrite the terms of our membership of this European club, which is a club which
is in need of reform. We don't know yet how the rules are going to be rewritten
within the eurozone, we don't know when that would happen, in what way. And
crucially, we don't know what that will ask of the UK."

Fresh Start, which has the backing of 100 Tory MPs, will call for the UK to
regain control over a huge range of functions now handled by the EU, including
social and employment laws, agriculture, fisheries and regional policies.

But the Centre for British Influence through Europe, which includes Mr Clarke,
Minister without Portfolio and Lord Mandelson, Labour's ex-Business Secretary,
dismissed the Tory MPs demands. An analysis for it by senior diplomats said:
"The UK needs a positive, realistic European agenda, not a largely unrealistic,
negative one. Repatriation proposals are not supported by practical methods to
achieve the objectives. Many proposals could be achieved by negotiating with
allies rather than having to demand [EU] treaty change."

It warned that such demands "could cause more alienation and provoke
infringement actions against the UK from member states. Proposals to
unilaterally break treaty obligations would be akin to defaulting on our debt.
We would undermine all we have stood for as a state which abides by the rule of
law."

The People's Pledge, an all-party group which campaigns for a referendum, said
Mr Cameron must answer three crucial questions in his speech. They are whether
he would still hold an "in or out" EU referendum if a renegotiation failed to
materialise or produced minimal results; make a referendum a condition if he
formed another coalition after the 2015 election, and pass a law before then
saying there will be a public vote in the next parliament.

POINTS OF CONTENTION

THE EUROSCEPTIC MANIFESTO - AND THE REBUTTAL

MANIFESTO

1 UK should opt out of working time and agency workers directives and maybe all
EU social and employment laws

2 UK should exercise its "block opt out" from 131 EU police and criminal justice
measures and seek voluntary co-operation agreements

3 EU's free movement rules to be reformed to help reduce net migration

4 UK should seek to regain control of its own fisheries

5 Agricultural policy should be returned to member states

6 UK should regain control of regional policy

7 UK should invoke Luxembourg compromise to protect its financial services

REBUTTAL

1 The UK should try to amend directives to reduce costs, without changing EU
treaties

2 Deeply flawed. Would mean withdrawing from Europol and Eurojust. Opposed by
police and security services

3 Would require treaty change; free movement is basic freedom

4 Highly doubtful historical rights in our waters will be negotiable

5 Red herring. More likely to be achieved through a regional EU trade policy

6 Objective of British governments for decades

7 A tactic bound to fail

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Deny the British a vote on the EU and we'll want one all the more;
Britain and Europe

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1101 words


A senior US official, the leader of a delegation from the Bundestag, and a
spokesman for the European Union president have united in saying it would be
rash to allow the British people a say on their nation's future within the
European Union. This has - oddly - been interpreted as a weighty check to the
ambitions of Eurosceptics.

On the contrary, since the Eurosceptic view is that closer integration of
Britain and the eurozone will lead to an insupportable transfer of control over
British laws towards politicians not elected by us, suggestions by foreign
figures (however friendly) that we had better listen to them if we know what is
good for us hardly seem well-judged; or at least not if their intention was to
weaken the momentum of popular demand for a referendum on the matter.

The remarks by Philip Gordon, the US assistant secretary responsible for
European Affairs, were especially clumsy. He did not - perhaps because that
would be too much of an interference - bother to make an argument as to why it
was in Britain's interests to be more closely integrated within the EU project.
No, all Mr Gordon said was that it was in America's interest for Britain to have
a central role within the EU establishment, because "Britain has been such a
special partner of the United States, that shares our values, shares our
interests... its voice within the European Union is essential and critical to
the United States". Or in other words, we in the State department want you to
know not so much how valuable it might be for you Brits to be in Brussels, but
how useful it is for us to have you guys there. Gee, thanks.

Actually, it has ever since the height of the Cold War been State Department
policy to see the creation of what amounts to a federal European state. Then it
was most to do with the perceived necessity to build up a united bulwark against
the Soviet Union. Yet Americans also seem to have a problem with the very idea
of European nation states, partly because they lost so many lives in wars fought
between nations on this continent, but also because since it is not a nation
state itself, it struggles to understand those who want to remain in one.

The US, by contrast, is a federation of states linked by an idea, otherwise
known as the American Constitution. This is what the EU establishment wanted to
set up with the European Constitution, to accompany the brave new single
currency. Unfortunately for them, referendums in France and Holland - hardly
known as bastions of popular Euroscepticism - rejected the idea; not for the
first time, the public had proven a great inconvenience.

Similarly, although those ridiculing the idea of Britain having a similar status
to Norway and Switzerland insist it would leave the governments of this country
with no influence and a weaker economy, it is interesting that the hardly
ill-educated citizens of those two nations have by a majority disbelieved
exactly this argument, when consulted in referendums. Norway rejected full
membership of the EU in a plebiscite in 1994 and it currently has no plans to
file another application. Most opinion polls still show roughly 60 per cent
opposed to full membership. It is a similar story in Switzerland, even though
geographically and linguistically that country could hardly be more part of
Europe. Yet in a referendum in 2001 - before the debacle of the euro-the Swiss
people rejected (with a vote of almost 77 per cent) the EU membership campaign
known as "Yes to Europe!".

No wonder such a large part of the British political establishment who
previously argued that we would suffer from massive loss of investment if we
failed to join the euro (such as Lord Mandelson, Lord Heseltine and anyone
associated with the Confederation of British Industry) are now getting their
knickers in a twist about the prospect of a straight "in or out" plebiscite in
this country.

Perhaps this will not happen and their knickers can return to their usual
unruffled state. David Cameron does not want the question to be put to the
British people in such a stark form. He has made it clear that he does not
countenance the idea of Britain's leaving the EU; and the first rule of
referendums is that you hold them only if you want the answer "Yes". So he will
try to put a more nuanced question to which that is the answer he is likely to
get.

It is true that before the last general election the Liberal Democrats had as
party policy the idea of holding an "in or out referendum", but this was a
tactical stunt rather than based on a genuine desire for such a plebiscite and
Mr Clegg would now rather forget he ever suggested it. Finally, there is the
point that the biggest single party in parliament after the general election in
2015 may very well be Labour, and at the weekend its leader Ed Miliband stated
with absolute clarity his opposition to the idea of a referendum on the matter.

Naturally, Mr Miliband understands that the Tory leader is in rather the same
position that Harold Wilson was back in 1975, when the Labour government held a
referendum on British membership of what was then the European Economic
Community. The Labour Party was deeply split on the issue and the offer of a
plebiscite (though itself a good thing) was the only way of keeping his party
manageable.

Also like Wilson, Cameron wants to have some success in renegotiating our terms
of membership; but unlike that Labour Prime Minister, he seems to think he could
achieve such claw-backs of power from Brussels that he could have a plebiscite
on that alone, without offering the option of complete exit. I would be most
surprised if he makes such gains across the negotiating table. Cameron seems to
have poor personal working relationships with his fellow national leaders within
the EU (not least Angela Merkel): he is no world-class schmoozer like John
Major, who successfully wooed Helmut Kohl and others into agreeing various
British opt-outs.

Faced with a complete failure in regaining any so-called "competencies" from the
immense regulatory morass of the European Union, however, the primordial
democratic question last put in 1975 will probably need to be asked again - as
even the impeccably Europhile Financial Times conceded last week when advocating
such a vote: "Today's EU is vastly different from the one Britain joined in
1973, or indeed the one Britons voted to stay in when they were last given a
chance to express their views."

So, with apologies for any discomfort in Washington, Berlin and Brussels, it
will then be time for that most unpredictable of events: the exercise of
democracy.

d.lawson@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

WHAT IF BRITAIN LEFT EUROPE?;
A "Brexit" is considered a real possibility for the first time in four decades.
But just how economically damaging would UK withdrawal be, asks Ben Chu

BYLINE: Ben Chu

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1151 words


The moment of climax is almost upon us. David Cameron is due to deliver his
"tantric" speech on Britain's future relations with the European Union in the
Netherlands on Friday. The Prime Minister is expected to promise a national
referendum on our membership of the club to take place after the next election.

Mr Cameron indicated in a radio interview yesterday that the promise will come
with a barrel-full of caveats. Among other things, the Conservatives will have
to win a majority in 2015. Plus our European partners will have to be willing to
amend the EU's governing treaties. In other words, the promised popular vote may
never arrive.

Nevertheless, a sense is growing that a British exit from Europe is now a more
real possibility than at any time since Edward Heath took us into the Common
Market in 1973.

Business leaders are starting to sound the alarm, warning that a British
withdrawal - even a mere vote on withdrawal - represents a serious danger to our
fragile economy. Some of the few remaining pro-European Conservatives, including
Lord Heseltine, are stirring too.

Are their warnings merited? Just how economically damaging would what some are
calling a "Brexit" actually be for us?

Trade

Britain entered the European Union 40 years ago because of the perceived
economic advantages of being part of the single market. Back in the 1970s,
Europe was growing strongly - more strongly than Britain.

Today much of the bloc is in recession and still suffering from an economic
fever brought on by the eurozone debacle. But in raw economic terms those trade
advantages have actually grown. The European Union is now a market of some 500
million people, thanks to successive rounds of enlargement taking in first the
newly democratic nations of southern Europe and then the former Soviet
satellites of Eastern Europe. The EU is the destination for half of our exports.
Lose access to those markets and the danger to our exporters is self-evident.

Couldn't we negotiate a free-trade agreement with the EU, like Norway and
Switzerland? Perhaps we could. But that cannot be assumed. And what would the
terms of a future deal be? Would a departing Britain get a decent settlement
from our irked former club partners?

There are plenty of reasons why foreign or even domestic firms might be nervous
about investing in Britain while the country pondered whether to stay or leave.

Regulation

Eurosceptics complain loudly about the plethora of business regulations that
emanate from Brussels which they claim are throttling innovation and
entrepreneurial dynamism. Steve Hilton, the Prime Minister's former adviser,
reportedly recently complained that 40 per cent of the Government's time is
spent implementing EU red tape. The British Chambers of Commerce has estimated
that the annual cost of these regulations is £7.4bn a year.

But the problem with the proposal of withdrawal as a solution is that we would
have to implement these regulations in any case to continue selling into the
trading bloc, just as Norway and Switzerland do. While in the EU we have a say
on setting the rules that govern the single market. We can push for reform from
within. It is not clear what advantage Britain would be getting if it withdrew
from the rule-setting club.

And it's not only restrictions that emanate from Brussels, but also freedoms.
Britons have the right to work and travel anywhere in the European Union. Would
they enjoy those same rights if Britain exited?

That might not matter terribly for the aggregate UK economy, but it matters
immensely for those British citizens who want to work or retire on the
Continent. At the moment some 750,000 Britons have are exercising this freedom.

Investment

Some non-European manufacturing firms regard the UK as a bridgehead to the EU
market. Around five out of six cars manufactured here are exported. We have seen
in recent days from two diverging decisions by two firms - Japan's Honda and the
Indian-owned Jaguar Land Rover - how important the inward investment decisions
of multinational corporations are for UK employment. European investment in
Britain matters too, with a significant proportion of inward investment in
Britain comes from the European Union. How would a British referendum affect all
these flows?

Richard Lambert, the former head of the CBI, pointed out that the latest
forecasts from George Osborne's Office for Budget Responsibility show 10 per
cent rises in business investment in 2015 and 2016. At this time government
retrenchment will still be subtracting demand from the economy thanks to the
ongoing austerity programme. To put it bluntly, if that investment does not
materialise, neither does the elusive UK recovery.

The UK higher education sector could also face a problem if Britain pulled out
of the EU. By some estimates up to 20 per cent of British universities' incomes
come from European research grants. Would the UK taxpayer be prepared to fill
this gap and safeguard Britain's economically crucial science base?

Financial services

As with trade, Britain presently helps to set the rules that govern the way
financial markets across Europe are regulated. Some have suggested that, since
the countries of the eurozone are moving to closer integration, this advantage
is not what it was. Britain is bound to be outvoted sooner or later, we are
told.

Some see jealous European eyes fixated on the business of the City of London.
And it is true that Christian Noyer, the French central bank governor, recently
suggested that London cannot be considered the natural centre for trading
euro-denominated securities.

Yet Britain probably has a better chance of fighting for its financial services
interests from within the EU negotiating chambers than outside. George Osborne
won protection from being outvoted on banking matters in Brussels last year when
the eurozone nations were haggling over the establishment of a single currency
banking pact. If Britain had not been in the EU, the Chancellor would not have
even been in the room.

Agriculture

There would be some unambiguous economic benefits from withdrawal. If Britain
left the EU, it would be freed from the wasteful, iniquitous and environmentally
harmful Common Agricultural Policy. That would be an economic advantage to the
tune of £5.5bn a year (the annual sum sent to Brussels between 2007 and 2013).
Ministers could then decide themselves whether to spend that money subsidising
large landowners. But given that agriculture accounts for less than 1 per cent
of our national output, this change would not be a transformational one.

Upon leaving the EU, ministers would also be free to decide unilaterally how
much fish to extract from our own territorial waters, without having to haggle
over annual quotas in Brussels. But again, anyone hoping to see Britain making
its living in the 21st century powered by a reinvigorated domestic fishing
industry is liable to end up cruelly disappointed.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

CAMERON 'TO ANNOUNCE EU REFERENDUM'

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 75 words


David Cameron tried to get his strategy on Europe back on track last night by
bringing forward his speech on the issue from next week to this Friday. The
Prime Minister is expected to offer the public a referendum on Europe after
2015's general election. But one possible date risked offending Germany and
France because it clashed with 50th-anniversary celebrations of the ??lysée
Treaty, which marked their reconciliation after the Second World War.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 14, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

'Euro realist' Tories plan to take on party's anti-EU brigade;
Group of MPs believes leaving Europe would cause massive damage to Britain's
economy

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 584 words


Pro-European Conservatives have launched an attempt to turn back the Eurosceptic
tide in the party they fear is sweeping Britain towards the exit door of the EU.

Tory MPs who describe themselves as "Euro realists" claim the "silent majority"
of the public do not want the UK to quit the EU. But they believe that a
reluctant David Cameron is being pushed in that direction by Tories who believe
Britain would be "better off out". The Prime Minister insists he wants the UK to
stay in a reformed EU, but in a much-promised speech later this month will
pledge a referendum after the 2015 election on the terms of membership. That has
raised fears of British withdrawal if voters reject the "new settlement" Mr
Cameron wins.

One senior Tory MP said yesterday that Mr Cameron was "all over place" on
Europe, adding: "He is trying to get the hardline Tory Eurosceptics and the UK
Independence Party off his back but he is quietly urging others to make the
positive case. He thinks his speech will close down the debate until after 2015
but it will open up a Pandora's box." Downing Street is said to be encouraging
about 20 Tory MPs to publish a letter warning that leaving the EU would cause
"massive damage" to the UK economy.

Conservatives are the driving force behind a new cross-party think tank, the
Centre for British Influence through Europe, to be launched on 30 January.
Business leaders, academics and diplomats are expected to join forces with
Tories Kenneth Clarke, the Minister without Portfolio, Lord Heseltine, the
former Deputy Prime Minister, Lord Mandelson, who was Labour's Business
Secretary, Alan Johnson, Labour's former Home Secretary and Lord Rennard, the
Liberal Democrat peer.

Lord Mandelson told The Independent yesterday the new group is mainly a
Conservative-inspired initiative, because that is where "activism" is needed.
"Quite a number of Tory MPs are fed up with the hardliners grabbing all the
limelight. David Cameron needs the other side of the argument - those with a
pragmatic, balanced view of Europe - to get organised and speak up," he said.

Peter Wilding, the campaign's director, a former Tory head of communications in
Europe, said: "We acknowledge the EU's shortcomings but far from leaving Europe,
Britain should be leading in Europe. We are neither Europhile nor Europhobe but
Eurorealist. As a country, we are more influential that we think. We can and do
build alliances to entrench economic reform to help reform Europe."

Last night Tory Eurosceptics demanded the Government disclose its estimates of
how many people from Bulgaria and Romania might come to Britain when they are
allowed to live and work in the UK at the end of this year. Eric Pickles, the
Communities Secretary, told the BBC's Sunday Politics programme: "I've seen
figures, I wasn't confident with those figures. I've asked for a further
explanation and when I've got that explanation and when I feel confident about
the figures then I'll talk about the figures."

Mr Pickles admitted an influx could add to housing problems. But there was
confusion in Whitehall over the figures to which he referred.

Ed Miliband announced yesterday that Labour would not offer a referendum at the
2015 election. He told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show that Mr Cameron was being
"incredibly dangerous" because he was "sleepwalking us towards the exit door of
the EU". The Labour leader said: "The last thing we should do is start saying
for some date five, six, seven years hence, let's decide now to have a
referendum."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 12, 2013 Saturday
                                 Third Edition

Osborne ruffles Brussels with first explicit threat to quit EU;
Chancellor speaks ahead of expected referendum promise by David Cameron

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 437 words


George Osborne has delivered a blunt ultimatum to the EU that it "must change"
to avoid Britain pulling out in the near future.

In a significant toughening of the Conservative leadership's language on the
issue, the Chancellor stressed he wanted the UK to stay in the bloc, but added
that the EU needed to undergo sweeping reform to prevent a British exit. He was
speaking as David Cameron prepares for a major speech which is expected to
include the promise of a referendum on the EU in the next Conservative
manifesto.

In an interview with the German newspaper Bild, Mr Osborne became the first
senior Government member to raise publicly the prospect of British withdrawal.
He said: "I very much hope Britain remains a member of the EU. But in order that
we can remain in the European Union, the EU must change."

The explicit threat to quit - previously only mentioned privately by ministers -
will be seen as an attempt to exert pressure on other member states in future
talks over a revised EU treaty.

It will also be welcomed by restive Tory backbenchers pressing the Government
for a tougher approach to the EU, but dismay Liberal Democrat members of the
Coalition.

Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, took a pot-shot at Tory ministers yesterday
when he warned that renewed speculation over Britain's place in Europe was
"deeply unhelpful in my job" and "deeply uncomfortable".

The diplomatic tension is rising ahead of Mr Cameron's speech - expected to be
delivered in the Netherlands on 22 January - in which he will declare his
determination to renegotiate EU treaties to loosen British ties with Brussels.
Herman Van Rompuy, the President of European Council, has made clear that any
attempt by the Prime Minister to repatriate powers to London is doomed.

A similar warning was delivered by a close ally of German Chancellor Angela
Merkel this week, while a senior US diplomat, Philip Gordon, cautioned against
any move that would marginalise Britain in Europe. Mr Cable yesterday described
Mr Gordon's "warning shot across the bows" as "quite helpful as well as very
timely".

In his interview, Mr Osborne refused to be drawn on whether the Prime Minister
was preparing to announce plans for a referendum. But he added: "David Cameron
has said recently a new consensus is necessary for our relations with Europe."

He said the British were "very disappointed" with the EU and were questioning
whether it could create jobs and tackle economic problems. His remarks were
published as Downing Street sought to play down suggestions of a rift between
Britain and the US over the direction of the Prime Minister's European policy.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 11, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

Some sense on Europe, at last;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 332 words


With Britain's place in Europe more uncertain now than at any time for 40 years,
it can only be welcome that the far-reaching consequences of a departure from
the EU are being spelled out so loudly. Perhaps, between the warnings of the US
government and those from a weighty section of our own business community, those
clamouring for the UK to go it alone might - finally - be given pause for
thought.

US diplomats' caution against endangering our membership of the EU is a timely
one. Washington's bafflement at who to call when wanting to talk to Europe is
well documented. Since the 1970s, the answer to the question has often been
Britain. Sever the link, however, and not just the "special relationship" but
also our broader geopolitical position will be materially damaged. The message
from the business community is hardly less forceful, with high-profile figures
including Richard Branson warning of the economic destabilisation that would
result from our withdrawal.

Faced with the far-reaching upheavals of the euro crisis, the ever-increasing
Euroscepticism of even mainstream Conservative MPs and the rise of the UK
Independence Party, David Cameron finds himself with less and less room to
manoeuvre on the issue. Thus far, the Prime Minister has tried to strike a
balance, maintaining his commitment to Britain's remaining within the EU even as
he reiterates his desire for a looser relationship with key powers "repatriated"
from Brussels. But the pressure is building. And his long-awaited speech on the
subject of Europe - now expected later this month - is likely to give the nod to
a referendum after the 2015 election, which will be cheered by his Eurosceptic
colleagues.

It was always naive to imagine that anti-Europe ideologues would give much
thought to the arguments presented by their political opponents. With the case
in favour of Britain remaining in Europe now being made by two more sympathetic
constituencies, perhaps at last the alternative view will gain a hearing.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 11, 2013 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Senior Merkel allies warn Cameron not to 'blackmail' EU

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 411 words


Allies of the German Chancellor Angela Merkel have warned David Cameron not to
"blackmail" Europe by threatening to take Britain out of the EU.

The Prime Minister is expected later this month to promise a referendum on a
"new settlement" for Britain - but not until after the 2015 general election.
Although he wants the UK to remain a member, there are growing fears among
pro-European politicians that a "No" vote could result in its departure from the
EU.

Gunther Krichbaum, the chair of Germany's European affairs committee who is
leading a group of senior German politicians on a visit to London, said a
British exit would be a disaster for Britain and Europe, and that an attempt
renegotiate the UK's membership terms would open a "Pandora's box".

"There is certainly a risk that [a referendum] could paralyse efforts for a
better Europe and deeper integration. Britain would risk being isolated. That
cannot be in Britain's interests," warned Mr Krichbaum, who represents Mrs
Merkel's Christian Democrats.

Asked whether Mr Cameron could win concessions by blocking integration designed
to safeguard the euro, Mr Krichbaum said: "You cannot create a political future
if you are blackmailing other states. That will not help Britain. It needs a
Europe that is stable. It needs markets that are functioning."

The administration of Barack Obama, below, has warned that Mr Cameron could risk
undermining British influence on the world stage.

The Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg warned Mr Cameron yesterday that Britain
could be reduced to "subsidiary status" if he goes ahead with a referendum which
could pave the way for its exit from the European Union.

Mr Clegg said: "Whatever question you put in any eventual referendum, the
underlying question is the same - does Britain want to lead in Europe and
continue to lead... Do we lead or do we hang back in a sort of subsidiary
status? Not only ourselves but the Americans and others quite understandably say
you are a big nation, you've got big horizons, you've got big ambitions, you've
got a big history, act big, don't act small."

Mr Clegg said British leadership in the EU was "an expression of
self-confidence". Insisting that he is "not frightened" of a referendum, Mr
Clegg pointed to growing doubts on the Continent about whether there would be a
new EU treaty to entrench eurozone integration.

Mr Cameron intends to demand that some powers are returned from Brussels to
London during negotiations on such a treaty.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 10, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Obama warns Britain: stay in the EU or lose influence;
Cameron urged to reconsider EU referendum

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA Defence Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 576 words


Britain risks damaging its relationship with America and being sidelined
internationally if it leaves the European Union, the Obama administration has
publicly warned.

"We value a strong UK voice in a strong European Union," said Philip H Gordon,
the US State Department's Assistant Secretary for European Affairs, during a
visit to London to meet ministers.

"We have a growing relationship with the EU as an institution, which has an
increasing voice in the world, and we want to see a strong British voice in that
EU. That is in America's interests. We welcome an outward-looking EU with
Britain in it." A British exit from the EU would not enhance the "special
relationship" in any way, he said. America would continue to forge stronger
links with member countries of the EU which it sees as "a growing voice in the
world" and "a critical partner on global issues".

The public statements of Mr Gordon, a respected senior member of the
administration, show the level of concern in Washington over a mooted referendum
on British membership of the EU. David Cameron has told the Commons that
although it was not his "preference" to pull out of the EU, he could see that
doing so would be "imaginable". In a long-awaited speech due soon on Europe, the
Prime Minister, it is believed, will say that a referendum will take place in
2018, after the next election.

But Eurosceptics have demanded that it is held sooner and Boris Johnson, seen as
a rival for the Conservative leadership, has joined them in making the call. The
Mayor of London said recently that it would be "fantastic" if the vote was taken
sooner, and declared: "I don't think that leaving the EU is the end of the
world."

François Hollande, the French President, has, in turn, stressed that the UK
cannot pick which laws it likes from an "a la carte" EU menu and should realise
that membership "is for life".

Mr Gordon said: "Countries which hold referendums tend to look inwards. We
welcome an outward-looking European Union with Britain in it. We benefit when
the EU is unified, speaking with a single voice and focused on our shared
interests around the world and in Europe."

Some Eurosceptics have maintained that becoming enmeshed in the EU was creating
political and diplomatic strains with America and leaving the Union would help
to repair and buttress these historic links. But Mr Gordon insisted the US would
be damaged: "The EU in particular is such a critical partner for the United
States on all of these global issues and therefore we also value a strong UK
voice in that European Union. Britain has been such a special partner of the
United States - that shares our values, shares our interests, and has
significant resources to bring to the table. More than most others, its voice
within the European Union is essential and critical to the United States."

In the increasing clamour over Britain and Europe, the heads of some of the
country's biggest businesses - among them Sir Richard Branson, the chairman of
the Virgin Group, BT's Sir Michael Rake and Rio Tinto's Jan du Plessis - have
published a signed letter saying that attempts to alter terms of membership
could "create damaging uncertainty".

Asked about the business leaders' comments, Mr Gordon said he understood their
apprehension. He added: "We have a growing relationship with the European Union
as an institution which has a growing voice in the world and we want to see a
strong British voice in that European Union. "

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             January 7, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

The Tories intend going on and on. Labour needs a radical alternative;
Politics

BYLINE: OWEN JONES

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1042 words


Could you take another seven years of this government? If Cameron's ambition is
realised, we are less than a third of the way into his premiership. It's not
quite a riff on Margaret Thatcher's chilling threat to go "on and on", but he
has stated his intention to remain at Number 10 until 2020. That is -
incidentally - the year austerity has (so far) been extended to, after Osborne's
commitment to eradicate the deficit by 2015 was trashed following his
well-executed strategy of seeking and destroying anything resembling growth and
demand in the economy.

Just think of all the proud achievements they've notched up in just 32 months: a
six-fold increase in people relying on food banks; the first attempt to
deliberately slash the real income of the poor - whether in or out of work -
since 1931; a shameless campaign to turn neighbour against neighbour, ranging
from the working poor and the unemployed to private and public sector workers;
laying the foundations for privatisating the NHS, without a pretence at a
mandate; stripping benefits from sick and disabled people, thousands of whom
subsequently died; and the longest fall in living standards for nearly a
century. Yet we stand on the verge of our first triple-dip recession; we remain
in the most protracted economic crisis on record; and borrowing continues to
surge. And all this in a coalition: Tory wets gave Thatcher more hassle than the
Lib Dems give Cameron.

Seven more years of baying Tory MPs waving their order papers in delight at yet
another chunk being hacked off the welfare state would be utterly intolerable. A
few months ago I met a young woman with a toddler in Hackney, kicked out of her
home after benefit cuts and living in sheltered accommodation: welcome to 21st
century Britain. All of us who are aware of the injustices being inflicted have
a responsibility to fight back, however we can; yelling obscenities at the
television won't really cut it. The futures of millions are at stake, and
Cameron's cabal will hope that their policies will be fundamentally
irreversible, just as came to pass with Thatcherism. But given the only
realistic way of evicting the Tories is a Labour victory, those horrified by
Cameron's Britain need to start putting pressure on the Labour leadership to
offer something that is clearly different.

Some still regard the prospects of Ed Miliband for Prime Minister as - frankly -
absurd. Midterm poll leads are meaningless, they argue: Neil Kinnock enjoyed
them too, after all, and the electorate gave him a kicking twice. Dan Hodges, a
blogger at The Telegraph and a supposedly in-house "lefty" with a brief to
attack the left at all costs, last week wrote that "a Conservative win in 2015
isn't only possible: right now, it's the most likely outcome." Peter Kellner,
the president of YouGov, also penned a fictional account written in 2016 about
how Cameron turned it all around and won an absolute majority: by promising an
EU referendum; pursuing a vicious campaign over welfare, backed up with a media
onslaught on "scroungers"; turning a general election into another vote on
Gordon Brown's economic legacy; and by a Lib Dem rout benefiting the Tories.

But there's much to suggest we will avoid a 1980s replay. The Tories have been
in decline for two generations: no election win since 1955 has given them a
higher share of the vote than the time before. That's also the last time a
governing party increased its share of the vote after a full term. The year 2010
was their election to lose, and they lost it. The anti-Tory vote is not split as
it was in the 1980s after a large chunk of the Labour right set up the SDP.
Indeed, the other potential major party of protest against the Tories is now
welded to them. Boundary changes that would, above all, have benefited the
Tories are dead. Ukip's polling surge will subside by election day, but will
still undoubtedly cost Cameron seats. Research for the Fabian Society last year
found that Lib Dem defectors to Labour would be enough to win without depending
on Tory voters. Labour's biggest threat is not widespread defections to the
Tories, but rather the failure of its own uninspired voters to come out and
vote.

This is not to be complacent. Labour must come under pressure, not only to
defend the interests of millions of people, but in order to stave off the Tory
threat too. The Conservatives - under the guidance of cynical spinner Lyndon
Crosby - want to use the so-called "welfare wedge": that is, to paint Labour as
the party of the scroungers. Research published by the TUC last week showed that
myths about benefits are endemic, but that the more educated people are about
welfare, the less supportive they are of cuts. Trade unions will soon launch a
new campaign to expose these lies and distortions: it must also give voice to
the real working poor and unemployed being battered by cuts to combat the
"scrounger" caricature. This will help defuse the Tory attack and force Labour
to defend those suffering with more vigour. We will reduce welfare spending,
Labour must be forced to say, by stopping the welfare subsidising greedy
landlords and employers.

Labour must be forced to offer policies that give people hope and something to
vote for. An emergency programme for real, secure work - reversing the
destruction of full-time work - must be at its heart, founded on a massive
council house-building scheme (which would reduce the amount spent on housing
benefit) and an industrial strategy, particularly pushing renewable energy jobs.
The party's opposition to austerity is hobbled by its own commitment to cuts: it
must come under pressure to hike taxes on the wealthy, as well as clamp down on
tax avoidance, not least by supporting the General Anti-Tax Avoidance Principle
Bill drawn up by crusading chartered accountant Richard Murphy.

A Tory government at a time of economic crisis is a national tragedy. The damage
inflicted on people and communities has already been profound, and - in truth -
there is far more suffering to come before Parliament is dissolved in May 2015.
But Cameron's hopes of another term must be destroyed. Don't just sit back and
wait for it to happen: it's up to all of us to demand an opposition worthy of
the name.

Twitter: OwenJones84

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             January 7, 2013 Monday
                                 Second Edition

Tory leader vows to crack down on 'benefits tourism' by European migrants

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 409 words


European migrants could have their access to the welfare state limited, David
Cameron said yesterday as he sought to appease eurosceptics in his own party and
the increasing numbers of voters won over by Ukip's anti-EU rhetoric.

His attack on so-called "benefits tourism" came as the five-year-old quotas
limiting the number of people from Bulgaria and Romania, which joined the EU in
2007, to work and live in Britain are set to expire. That could lead to
thousands of workers from those two countries setting off to wealthier parts of
Europe in search of jobs. Mr Cameron is due to make a major speech on Europe
later this month and yesterday he gave his clearest indication yet that it will
include some kind of commitment, in certain circumstances, to a referendum on
Britain's future in the EU.

Rather than offer the simple choice of staying in or leaving the EU, which is
what many right-wing Tory MPs advocate, Mr Cameron is hoping he can negotiate a
change in EU rules that will reduce the power of Brussels and increase that of
the Westminster government, and then put the new conditions to a popular vote.

Part of his strategy is to convince the public that he can wrest concessions out
of the EU. The Tory chairman, Grant Shapps, came close to saying yesterday that
Mr Cameron is more anti-EU than Margaret Thatcher was. Asked by the BBC to
compare the two, Mr Shapps praised Mr Cameron as "the only ever British Prime
Minister to veto a European treaty". He added: "She never vetoed a treaty."

Mr Cameron told BBC's Andrew Marr: "Should we look at arguments about should it
be harder for people to come and live in Britain and claim benefits? Yes,
frankly, we should - so there are areas even in the free movement of people
where we might want to make changes."

Aides were unable to give any detail yesterday of how he would set about
preventing EU immigrants who have come to the UK legally from qualifying for
benefits, though they said the Home Office is seeking co-operation on clamping
down on bogus marriages that give non-EU citizens access to the welfare state.

But Labour's shadow Foreign Secretary, Douglas Alexander, warned: "Announcing an
in-out referendum half-way through this Parliament, to take place half-way
through the next, could risk seven years of economic uncertainty, threatening
inward investment. Simply presenting a shopping list backed up by a threat of
exit will undermine our ability to shape and lead the broader project."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 5, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Who cares if politicians are hated? Should obese people lose their benefits?;
The big questions

BYLINE: Answered this week by GLORIA DE PIERO

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 841 words


Why should we care that politicians are now, as you have suggested, about as
popular as axe murderers?

It doesn't have to be the case. If some think we're that bad, they should have a
go at doing it themselves. In order to do that we need to open up our politics.
I met a very opinionated woman called Sharon who worked at a warehouse in
Derbyshire. She said to me on my "why do people hate me" tour: "It's not
advertised, is it? You don't pick a paper up and it says 'one politician wanted,
come for this interview', do you?" It's a fair point.

What changes would bridge the disconnect between the sterility of Westminster
debate and the concerns of the public?

We need a more representative Parliament - a one nation Parliament. Polling
conducted for me by YouGov reveals that nearly one in four people would be
interested in being an MP. I don't think any of us would have expected that. I'm
not a fan of the shouting and braying that go on in the chamber. Most people in
the YouGov polling who said they wouldn't consider standing said it's the way we
do politics that puts them off.

Are British people guilty of taking democracy too much for granted?

If people can't be bothered to vote, I suspect that's more to do with us than it
is to do with them. I knock on a lot of doors, and it upsets me when so many
think politics has nothing to do with them. One thing that shocked me on my "why
do people hate me" tour was that when I asked what qualities were needed to
become a politician, most said "qualifications". All people need is a vision
about the kind of country they want Britain to be and a passion for representing
their community. I meet a lot of people who work for the people of Ashfield
every day - maybe through a tenants' and residents' group or setting up sports
clubs for local children. I'd like to see more of these people involved in
politics. I want to explore ways of how to make it attractive for people like
them to join us and stand. Get a broader pool in at a local level and you
increase the pool available for Parliament.

If politics as it is practised is so unloved, how do you explain the rise of
Ukip and the popularity of figures such as Boris Johnson? Aren't people just
hungry for honesty and authenticity?

I think Ukip is mostly an anti-politics vote and there's always been a
constituency for that. The Lib Dems used to get a lot of it before they went
into government. I agree about authenticity. Boris isn't my cup of tea; I don't
think you have to act like a buffoon to be authentic. Dennis Skinner came to
Ashfield to support me in the general election campaign and said "always be
yourself". It's good advice and I've stuck with it - for good or ill.

Is Peter Mandelson right when he says that Ed Miliband and Ed Balls still need
to convince voters they can be trusted with the economy?

Peter also says it takes time. It's what Ed Balls and Ed Miliband focus on every
day. Lehman Brothers in the US didn't collapse because the Labour government
spent too much on schools and hospitals. The Government said it would eliminate
the deficit but its plan isn't working. You can't eliminate the deficit without
jobs and growth because tax revenues fall and borrowing rises.

Did Labour allow the [benefits] dependency culture to spiral out of control?

We're the Labour Party - the party that was created to fight for people to have
jobs. A Labour government would offer any adult who has been out of work for
more than 24 months a job for six months. Anyone refusing the offer would lose
their Jobseeker's Allowance. We're also promising a job for those aged between
18 and 24 who have been out of work for more than six months. It's true there
are some people on the make and that must be stopped, but let's not tar everyone
with the same brush. I meet people every day who are desperate to work. To call
them scroungers is offensive.

Would you back a referendum on Britain's continued membership of the EU?

I'm relaxed in principle, but I wouldn't want a referendum now as I want our
leaders to focus on getting the economy working. I'd vote to stay in the EU as
most of our trade is with Europe, and I want us to be at the table when the
rules are being drawn up. But when I'm knocking on doors it rarely comes up.

Should comedians be allowed to make off-colour jokes about the Queen?

I didn't see [C4's Big Fat Quiz of the Year] and politicians shouldn't comment
on programmes they haven't seen. Actually, me and my husband had planned to
watch the show but turned it over after a few minutes because it wasn't making
us laugh. We watched The Hotel on C4+1 instead which did the trick.

Is Labour copping out by allowing MPs to vote on gay marriage as a matter of
individual conscience?

No, but I'll be voting in favour. Love is the thing that makes life worth living
- marriage is the way people celebrate that love.

Should obese people who refuse to exercise have their benefits cut?

So if you've got a job, you don't have to exercise, but if you lose your job you
do? Come off it.

Gloria De Piero is the Labour MP for Ashfield

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 5, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

PM: voters will have say on EU

BYLINE: JOE CHURCHER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 150 words


Voters will be offered a "real choice" on Britain's future relations with the
European Union, David Cameron said ahead of a major speech on the issue this
month.

The Prime Minister refused to be drawn on precisely how he will respond to
backbench Conservative Eurosceptic demands for an in/out referendum on future
membership. But he repeated his insistence that the country was better-off
remaining within a reformed EU than pulling out. Mr Cameron is expected to use
the long-delayed speech to set out proposals to negotiate the return of powers
from Brussels and allow a public vote.

Asked by BBC Radio 5 Live whether that could involve the option of withdrawal,
he said: "You will have to wait for the speech.

"But it will demonstrate very clearly that it is the Conservative Party at the
next election that will be offering people a real change in terms of Europe and
a real choice about that change."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 192 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 1, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Forty years on, the advantages of membership are no longer compelling;
European Union

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1142 words


Forty years ago today a Union Jack was raised on top of the Brussels
headquarters of what was then known as the European Economic Community.
According to a report at the time, "one of Britain's new European Commissioners,
George Thomson, joined revellers in a torchlit procession".

I may be missing something; but there do not seem to be any such celebrations,
either in Brussels or Blighty, to mark the 40th anniversary of what must be
accounted the most significant moment - at least symbolically - in post-war
British history. The situation is somewhat different in Ireland, which joined
the EEC on the same date and which today takes up the rolling national
Presidency of what is now a union of 27 countries. "Through our membership,
Ireland has a role in the world it could never otherwise hope to play," wrote
one Irish political celebrant last week.

There are other differences, obviously. In stark contrast to Britain, Ireland
became a significant net beneficiary of EU funds; as a more rurally based
economy the Common Agricultural Policy was embraced as an asset rather than
endured as a cost of membership. And, perhaps most significantly, joining was
seen as a way in which Ireland could escape from Britain's long shadow.

In that sense, Ireland's membership was as an enhancement of its nationalism, a
profoundly political act quite divorced from any issues of financial gain or
loss. This was not the case for Britain: we were unlike every other applicant in
that the arguments of those advocating membership were almost entirely expressed
in terms of narrow economic benefit. After all, earlier British governments had
rejected the idea of membership of what was originally the European Coal and
Steel Community because we had more than enough of the stuff for any purposes we
could envisage; and unlike France and Germany, we did not think that if we
failed to pool such industrial interests we would otherwise be at risk of
starting another war.

Yet in the late 1950s and 1960s, as our industrial performance relative to
France and Germany went into decline, and our formerly flourishing trade with
the Commonwealth also diminished, a recalculation took place: this was an
economic club which seemed to have proved its worth and which we should
therefore join.

And, eventually, under the Conservative administration of Edward Heath, we did.
This was reinforced by a referendum in 1975, in which again the arguments of the
"Yes" camp were entirely expressed in terms of economic benefits, enhanced by
the fact that the business establishment was unanimously of the same view. Of
course, when we joined the thing, it was actually called the European Economic
Community: a phrase properly suggestive of an association of entirely
independent nations coming together solely for the purpose of trade. As far as
the political classes of its leading member-states were concerned, however, this
was a misnomer: hence the later rebranding as the European Union (a title much
more redolent of a single entity) and their subsequent attempt to create a
European Constitution, with the full legal and symbolic panoply of statehood.

This, however, was and is political anathema to most Britons, whether Labour or
Conservative voters ; and even though the Lib Dems have traditionally been the
most enthusiastic of the political parties for such schemes, detailed opinion
polls suggest that the electors who vote for them are scarcely less eurosceptic
in their attitudes.

The most recent polls, indeed, consistently show a majority favouring exit from
the EU, if offered a straight "in or out" question. A seismic shift in the
attitude of the British people occurred as a result of the traumatic exit of the
UK from the EU's Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992. Our membership of the ERM,
with interest rates held at eye-watering levels to retain parity, had begun to
seem merely masochistic; and when we exited, it appeared to bring with it an era
of economic recovery. From then on, the British public treated with much greater
scepticism the notion that being an integral and central part of the EU was
somehow axiomatically an economic good: and to the extent that this acted as the
democratic brake on Tony Blair's professed intention to take the UK into the
eurozone, it could only be seen as a blessing.

In order to realise just how very far removed modern Britons are from the
mindset at the heart of the project, one only needs to listen to Angela Merkel,
who has repeatedly declared that the euro's continuation in its present form is
"a matter of war and peace in Europe". The German Chancellor, not a woman given
to rhetorical flourishes or overstatement, clearly believes that preventing a
break-up of the single currency - the monetary expression of the drive towards a
single federal European state - is necessary to stop another war. In that sense,
she is still back in 1951, when the Coal and Steel Community was formed.

Similarly, those who argue that Britain faces some sort of financial Armageddon
if it were to leave are also living in the past. The EU is a diminishing
proportion of our overall trade, rather than increasing, as it was in the 1960s.
This is a function of the fact that Europe's share of global Gross Domestic
Product has fallen by half over the past 15 years. If anything, our trade should
be less with Europe and more with the developing world. Meanwhile, national free
trade deals have multiplied under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation;
and the EU has itself negotiated tariff-free arrangements with a number of
non-members, including Turkey. The idea that only by being part of an ever more
prescriptive and centrally invigilated European political union can Britain
realise its national potential is increasingly anachronistic.

Nor is it necessarily the case that those nations within its territorial
boundaries would wish to punish Britain for seeking an exit. Last week, Jacques
Delors, the architect of the euro and the former chief intellectual adversary of
Margaret Thatcher, told the German newspaper Handelsblatt: "If the British
cannot support the trend towards more integration in Europe, we can nevertheless
remain friends, but on a different basis. I could imagine a free trade
agreement." He went on to remark that we were "strategically and economically
important" and should stay "a privileged partner".

I know that many think there is actually something uncivilised in not being a
member of the EU. But I have never felt, when in Switzerland, that I am far from
civilisation; nor that Switzerland's international image is somehow diminished
by its lack of membership of this particular political club. Forty years on, it
is high time to reassess the terms of our own partnership: as with some
marriages, amicable separation might be preferable to fractious co-habitation.

d.lawson@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
